--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
Diversity,  
Equity and  
Inclusion 
Report
2022
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
Contents
From Our Chief Purpose Officer 3
A Year of Progress 4
2022 Awards and Recognition 5
Our Approach 6
Governance 7
People  8
People Movement  12
Development and Retention 13
DEI Learning 15
People Engagement  16
Customers  18
Inclusive Products 18
Thought Leadership  19
Communities 20
Supplier Diversity  20
Partners  21
Philanthropy  22
People Engagement and Volunteerism 24
Moving Forward Together  25
2 S&P Global DEI Report 2022
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
3
S&P Global DEI Report 2022From Our Chief 
Purpose Officer
Amid the geopolitical and social concerns that faced the 
world in 2022, S&P Global reinforced its commitment 
to diversity, equity and inclusion through our values, 
our words and most importantly, our actions.
I am incredibly proud to introduce you to this inaugural 
edition of our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Report, 
which builds on our prior impact reporting and details 
the ways in which we have activated our purpose to 
Accelerate Progress through our commitment to DEI.  
We believe that diversity fuels creative insights, equity 
unlocks opportunity, and inclusion drives growth and 
innovation. Advancing DEI is a key component of our 
ambition to power global markets. It means driving 
inclusion in our products and for our customers and 
stakeholders, and it includes promoting equity for people 
and communities. 
Our People First philosophy underpins our global culture.  
We enable our people through progressive policies and 
practices, a holistic suite of benefits and philanthropic 
programs that support community engagement.
So often, it’s our People Resource Groups (PRGs) 
around the world, our communities of inclusion, that are 
seeing the needs, advocating for change and offering 
solutions. Whether it’s recommending accessible design 
features in our market offerings or advocating for greater 
understanding and action on human rights, our colleagues 
live and breathe People First.
This culture of care, and our core values of integrity, 
partnership and discovery, served us well as we completed 
our successful merger with IHS Markit in February 2022. 
Our expanded organization has brought new perspectives 
and programming for greater impact. Tailored DEI 
approaches and dedicated support for every business 
strengthen our enterprise-wide DEI strategy and create 
global momentum. As Chief Purpose Officer, I work with leaders across the 
business, along with my teams in DEI, People, Corporate 
Responsibility, Marketing and Communications. 
We center our DEI commitment around our people, 
partners, communities, and in our business. We ensure 
progress by linking specific DEI metrics to our leaders’ 
compensation and driving accountability and transparency 
through increased disclosure. We cultivate a continual 
feedback loop for action and improvement, including 
seeking out our colleagues’ personal experiences 
related to inclusion and opportunity at work. 
Our People First culture and commitment to measurable 
progress are accelerating our momentum and fueling our 
ambition to do more. Our business provides the essential 
data, analytics and research that deliver unparalleled 
insights to our customers on sustainability. In order to 
continue accelerating progress, we need to embrace the 
most inspirational ideas and forward-thinking practices 
from India, the United Kingdom, the United States, the 
Philippines and every place in between. I have never 
been more excited about what we can achieve together.
This report details our work to continue building a more 
diverse, equitable and inclusive company and world. 
Thanks for coming along with us on this journey.
Sincerely,
Dimitra Manis  
Chief Purpose Officer

--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
4
S&P Global DEI Report 2022A Year of  
Progress
S&P Global’s work to Accelerate Progress in the world 
brings an opportunity to have meaningful impact for 
both the planet and our people. To support this essential 
commitment, we have have taken important steps 
to strengthen our sustainability and human capital 
disclosures, and to drive increased representation through 
recruiting partnerships and colleague engagement.  
Fostering a culture of DEI is a critical priority at the heart of 
our strategic agenda and supported by our board, CEO and 
senior leadership team.
Following completion of our merger with IHS Markit in 
February 2022, we built on a foundation of long-established 
DEI initiatives, to extend and elevate our programming for 
the newly combined organization. We have expanded our 
mandate to include a division-level and regional approach 
to DEI. Our DEI vision centers on our people, customers and 
communities, providing us with a clear direction, and our 
mission outlines our philosophy and strategy. 
We saw the value of our approach as we worked to 
integrate our global People Resource Groups (PRGs), 
which are essential to supporting our inclusive 
workplace. Our enterprise-level team provides guidance 
and structure, enabling local leaders to form new 
leadership boards, develop strategic plans and produce 
exceptional programming. Our PRGs now have more 
than 80 chapters directed by more than 600 global and 
regional board leaders worldwide and engage 33% of our 
global workforce.
We are excited to go further, led by our data-driven approach and our People First philosophy. This DEI 
Report is an important step in taking stock of our 
DEI efforts, increasing transparency on our progress 
and how we plan to move forward. We welcome your 
partnership in this work.
Sincerely,
Annette O’Hanlon   
Chief Corporate Responsibility & Diversity Officer

--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
5
S&P Global DEI Report 2022About This Report
This report covers S&P Global DEI management and performance across its global footprint in 
2022, including IHS Markit data from March onward, when we completed our merger. Demographic 
data included in this report is as of December 31, 2022, unless otherwise noted. 
S&P Global ’s total employee count is 39,950. However, this report excludes CARFAX, CRISIL 
and Taiwan Ratings Corp. Therefore, demographic data in this report accounts for 34,206 
employees. Unless specified, data for previous years is for S&P Global on a stand-alone basis 
prior to the merger.
We are committed to transparency of our workforce’s demographic makeup and to complying  
with disclosure regulations, including publishing country-specific gender pay gap reporting, which 
can be found on our Reports & Policies  site. Our most recent consolidated U.S. Equal Employment 
Opportunity data can be found here . For data reporting and information about our third-party 
assurance, view our  2022  Impact Report .
2022 Awards and Recognition

--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
6
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Our Approach  
At S&P Global, as the world’s foremost provider of transparent and independent ratings, 
benchmarks, analytics and data, we embrace DEI as a critical business driver and a responsibility 
owned by our global colleagues. 
As a purpose-led company, we concentrate efforts where we have the most opportunity to drive 
progress across our people, customers and communities. By focusing on our global workforce and 
aligning our priorities across our partner engagements and philanthropy, we strive for meaningful 
progress toward systemic equity. We also understand the intersectionality between DEI and 
respect for human rights, both in our operations and supply chain.  
In 2022, we built on the strengths of our new, combined company, expanding our Corporate 
Responsibility and DEI team, reinforcing our commitment to DEI and refining our key areas 
of impact. In line with our People First philosophy, we concentrated our efforts on our 
People strategic pillar, focusing on socializing the new DEI strategy across the combined 
organization, tailoring it for each of the distinct divisions, and consolidating and delivering 
established initiatives. 
We also integrated our grassroots and philanthropic efforts, refining our focus areas and 
strengthening our ability to support and help advance inclusive, resilient communities internally 
and externally. 
While we have made good progress in our first year as a combined organization, we recognize 
that there is more work to be done. We will continue to advance our DEI focus in our organization, 
through customer engagement and across our global communities, as we deliver in 2023.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
7
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
DEI Strategic Pillars
People  
Enable our colleagues to thrive 
and feel they belong by focusing 
on strategic recruiting, investing 
in the development and retention 
of our people, and providing 
a conducive environment for 
learning and overall engagement.Customers  
Provide essential sustainability 
intelligence to our customers 
through a variety of mediums, 
such as DEI reporting, supporting 
inclusive product design and 
sharing thought leadership.Communities 
Accelerate equity in our 
communities by integrating 
DEI into our supplier diversity 
practices, working with local 
partners to devise community 
solutions, expanding our 
philanthropic activities, and 
increasing transparency 
through disclosure.
Governance
Our Board of Directors and senior management view DEI 
as critical to our long-term success, driving business 
growth and innovation, and empowering our people to 
achieve their full potential. As such, the Board regularly 
engages with our CEO, Chief Purpose Officer, Chief 
Corporate Responsibility & Diversity Officer and other 
members of senior leadership to provide oversight 
and direction on our DEI priorities and programs. At the management level, our Chief Purpose Officer directs 
the development and execution of our People strategy, 
working with senior leaders across the company. She 
oversees our People, DEI and Corporate Responsibility 
teams, as well as our Marketing and Communications 
functions. In addition, the Chief Purpose Officer leads our 
DEI team in working with division and functional leaders in 
implementing governance to support effective execution. 
We ensure alignment of enterprise and divisional DEI goals 
through business reviews and our balanced scorecards. 
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
8
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
  People
Our company’s success depends on our people. We strive to create an environment that 
encourages our colleagues around the world to feel a deep sense of belonging, where they feel 
empowered to contribute their unique insights within our company, with our customers and in 
our communities. We invest in our company by investing in our people.
Our People First philosophy is the foundation of our DEI strategy. It’s what drives our 
efforts to support our colleagues in reaching their full potential. We enable broad access to 
training and development and encourage connections that can open the door to skill growth 
and advancement.
Diversity in Our Workforce
Our ability to attract, retain and develop a diverse workforce 
is critical to our long-term strategy, driving business growth 
and innovation and empowering our people to achieve their 
full potential. 
We believe that increasing data disclosure in our external 
reporting demonstrates our commitment to transparency 
and helps guide our progress with concrete metrics. 
Our reporting of global gender and U.S. race/ethnicity 
representation data provides a comprehensive view of 
our people and uses an intersectional lens when analyzing 
our workforce. In addition to 2021 data for the historical 
S&P Global company, this report includes data across our 
34,000+ colleagues in 44 countries as of the end of 2022, 
following our merger with IHS Markit. 2022 data reflects 
the merger’s expansion of our global workforce by 14,655 
people, including a significant increase in colleagues from 
the EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) region. 
This 42.8% growth in our workforce over 2021 numbers 
impacted the trajectories for some of our gender and diverse 
representation trends. This combined view establishes 
a new baseline from which we will continue to build. 
Our 2022 workforce demographics indicate priority areas  
of focus for 2023 and beyond: 
 –Increase female representation globally, currently 38.2%.
 –Further encourage self-ID campaigns to increase 
disclosure of LGBTQ+ people, those with disabilities 
and veterans, currently 1.88%, 0.38% and 0.80% 
respectively, and report globally wherever possible.
 –Build on the modest growth in our U.S. Black and  
Hispanic/Latine populations, currently 4.6% and  
5.7%, respectively. 
 –Across our U.S. critical roles, further extend the growth 
of female representation in commercial and in-demand 
technology roles, currently 37.4% and 32.1%, respectively. 
We have provided 2022 data as a snapshot of the newly 
combined S&P Global baseline. We will continue to provide 
insight on our workforce demographics in future reporting.Gender Pay Gap 
We recognize that equitable, competitive, fair and 
transparent compensation and reward programs improve 
outcomes for our people, our customers and our business. 
The pay equity picture is constantly changing to incorporate 
movements in the organization, such as acquisitions, 
divestitures, hiring and promotions. We continually review 
and enhance our compensation programs and practices 
to ensure fair pay for our people. Our pay gap reporting 
highlights disproportionate representation at different 
levels of seniority throughout the company; we remain 
committed to investing in women to reduce these gaps.
In 2022 *:
 –Our mean gender pay gap is 14%, up from 5.8% in 2021. 
This increase is mainly due to the integration of historical 
IHS Markit people in our workforce.
 –Our mean gender bonus pay gap is 29%, unchanged  
from 2021. 
 –In our efforts to enhance transparency, we are reporting 
the ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 
men for the first time, which is at 84%.
We will continue to focus on identifying and addressing 
our gap through recruitment activities, talent planning, 
professional development and compensation.
Our gender pay gap reports are available on our  
Reports &  Policies  site.
Pay Equity
Following the merger with IHS Markit, we will be 
examining pay equity across the combined organization 
in 2023 and expect to report further on our progress. 
To review our prior pay equity summary, read our 
2021 Impact Report , published in May 2022.
*This data reflects all S&P Global people as of December 31, 2022, with the 
exception of CRISIL, Taiwan Ratings, S&P Guild and union team members, 
which are excluded due to their different compensation structures.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
9
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Our Global Presence
North America
10,297 peopl e
3,864 women  
(37.53%)
Latin America
694 peopl e
345 women  
(49.71%)EMEA
5,410 peopl e
2,048 women  
(37.86%)APAC excl. India
5,189 peopl e
2,411 women  
(46.46%)
India Region
12,616 peopl e
4,402 women  
(34.89%)
38.21%
women gl obally
EMEA:  Europe, Middle Eas t and Africa  
APAC: Asia -Pacific
Data as of December 31, 2022. Excludes CRISIL, CARFAX, Taiwan Ratings Corp.  
The race/ethnicity group ‘Other’ includes: Native American or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, two or more races.  
North America data includes Canada.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
10
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
STEMRevenue-generating
functionsManagementJunior managementSenior managementGlobalFemale (%) Male (%)
20222021 38.9
38.2  
45.0
30.0   
34.3
32.5   
33.9
31.1  
38.8
39.7   
32.7
31.7  61.1
61.8
55.0
70.0
65.7
67.5
66.1
68.9
61.2
60.3
67.3
68.3
0 25 50 75 100Global Gender Representation – Year-over-Year
–   All of S&P Global excluding CRISIL, CARFAX and Taiwan Ratings Corp. 2022 data is post-merger and includes the IHS Markit employee population. 
–   As of December 31, 2022, 781 former IHS Markit employees were not assigned a comparable S&P Global job family and level profile; for this reporting, they were 
assigned a job family and level profile based on their historical job framework identification. Among this group, 228 had no comparable job family assignment and 
thus were not assessed for the job discipline-related measures such as Revenue Generating, STEM, Analysts/Tech/Sales.
–   Data reflects self-identified ethnicity for U.S. employees as of December 31, 2022.White Asian Hispanic/Latine Black
UnspecifiedTwo or more races
Native American or Alaskan Native Other0 25 50 75 1002022 2021 0.3 0.1
(%)0.3 0.053.4 19.2 5.7 4.6 14.7
1.948.6 21.6 5.0 4.5 2.3 17.6Global Employees by Location
2.0% LatAm
52.0%
(17,805)
APAC30.1%
(10,297)
North America15.8%
(5,410)
EMEA(694)Global Age Groups*
61.4%
(20,987)
30-50 years old27.1%
(9,276)
<30 years old11.5% >50 years old
(3,936)
*Excludes 7 non-disclosed employees
U.S. Ethnicity by Female % – Year-over-Year
Female (%) Male (%)
20222021 39.2
36.6%
41.3
40.7
46.7
45.0
51.7
46.8
40.7
38.8
42.9
25.8
60.0
42.9
31.7
31.760.8
63.4
58.7
59.3
53.3
55.0
48.3
53.2
59.3
61.2
57.1
74.2
40.0
57.1
68.3
68.3UnspecifiedOtherNative American or
Alaskan NativeTwo or more racesBlackHispanic/LatineAsianWhite
0 25 50 75 100
U.S. Diverse Representation as Self-Identified – Year-over-Year
VeteransPeople with
DisabilitiesLGBTQ+20222021
0 25 50 75 1001.88% 0.99% 
0.38% 0.44% 
0.80% 1.16% 
U.S. Ethnicity % – Year-over-Year
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
11
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
–   All of S&P Global excluding CRISIL, CARFAX and Taiwan Ratings Corp. 2022 data is post-merger and includes the IHS Markit employee population. 
–   As of December 31, 2022, 781 former IHS Markit employees were not assigned a comparable S&P Global job family and level profile; for this reporting, they were 
assigned a job family and level profile based on their historical job framework identification. Among this group, 228 had no comparable job family assignment and 
thus were not assessed for the job discipline-related measures such as Revenue Generating, STEM, Analysts/Tech/Sales.
–   Data reflects self-identified ethnicity for U.S. employees as of December 31, 2022.
–  “Other” includes Other, Two or more Races, Native American. “Male” and “Female” may not total "All," because "All" includes those who did not disclose.Critical U.S. Roles by Gender and Ethnicity
U.S. Analytical Roles
0 500 1000 1500 2000All
(1,773)Male
 (1,141)Female
(628)
57.0%
(651)13.6%
(156)17.2%
(197)6.0% (69)
3.8% (44)
54.4%
(966)16.1%
(286)6.5%
(115)17.1%
(304)3.7% (66)50.1%
(315)20.5%
(129)16.5%
(104)7.3% (46) 3.5% (22)1.9% (12)
2.1% (24)
2.0% (36)
U.S. Commercial Roles
0 500 1000 1500 2000All
(1,587)Male
(989)Female
(594)
65.3%
(646)17.2%
(170)4.4% (44)
5.7% (57)
64.2%
(1,019)5.8%
(93)7.1%
(113)15.0%
(239)62.6%
(372)8.2% (49) 3.2% (19)5.4% (32) 9.4% (56)
4.4% (44)
2.8% (28)
2.9% (47)11.1% (66)
4.8% (76)
U.S. In-Demand Technology Roles
2.1% (5)
0 50 100 150 200 250All
(234)Male
    (157)Female
(75)
47.1%
(74)
45.3%
(106)28.0%
(44)12.7%
(20)
30.7%
(72)13.2%
(31)41.3%
(31)37.3%
(28)2.6% (2)2.6% (2)
7.6% (12)
1.9%(3)2.6% (2)
13.3% (10)
2.5% (4)
5.9% (14)
2.5% (6)
White Not Specified Other Black Hispanic/Latine Asian
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
12
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
People Movement
The diverse characteristics and perspectives that our people bring to S&P Global give us a real and  
vital competitive edge. We are deliberate in building the partnerships and pipelines needed to attract 
colleagues across all backgrounds and lived experiences. 
Recruiting Partnerships 
S&P Global embeds DEI into our recruiting and internal 
mobility processes. By doing so, we aim to increase 
the pool of diverse candidates at all levels and ensure 
that our hiring processes are fully supportive and 
equitable. We do this in several ways, including:
 –Investing in targeted external DEI-focused events, job 
fairs, partnerships and other recruiting opportunities. 
 –Participating in key career fairs and partnering with key 
external vendors to position our company as an employer 
of choice for underrepresented colleagues.
 –Engaging with historically Black colleges and universities 
(HBCUs) through mutually beneficial partnerships 
focused on brand awareness, community support and 
talent acquisition.
Attracting Early-Career Talent in the UK 
To attract diverse talent, S&P Global works with a 
number of partners in early-career recruitment, 
including 10,000 Black Interns  in the United Kingdom. 
The program offers paid internship opportunities 
across more than 25 sectors, in addition to training and 
development opportunities. For several years, we have 
proudly welcomed interns through this partnership.
Increasing our Efforts to Hire People with Disabilities
Throughout 2022, we continued to expand our 
efforts to hire and support colleagues with 
disabilities. We began a partnership with v-shesh , 
an award-winning impact enterprise that prepares 
job seekers with opportunities and organizations 
with disability inclusion. We hired 23 people in 
India across our business in 2022. We plan to 
expand our partnership with v-shesh to further 
support the community, and we continue to work 
closely with our Reach People Resource Group 
(PRG) to champion our people with disabilities.HBCU Engagement
To increase the representation of Black colleagues in 
our U.S. workforce – currently 4.6% compared to 12% 
across the U.S. private sector1 – in 2022, we launched 
an initiative to attract Black talent through meaningful 
engagement with HBCUs. Through long-term, intentional 
engagements, we aim to improve our hiring of Black 
students and HBCU alumni, while lending our philanthropy, 
research tools and subject matter expertise to bolster 
education and research capabilities at partner HBCUs. 
We identified a few HBCUs for pilot initiatives kicking off 
with Texas Southern University in Houston and Jackson 
State University in Mississippi. Additionally, we are 
working with the National Black MBA Association and 
other partners to engage more with HBCUs through 
skills-building presentations and other support.
Complementing these strategic partnerships, we are 
exploring innovative ways to engage HBCU students, 
through global competitions and topical industry events. 
By taking a deliberate approach, we are 
building long-term partnerships that will 
strengthen historically Black colleges 
and universities and our own ability 
to attract and retain Black talent.”  
Cheryl Baxter  
Vice President, DEI“
Partnership Kicks Off at Texas Southern University
In September 2022, we hosted the first S&P Global 
Day at Texas Southern University (TSU) in Houston. 
The daylong program included a professional 
development session and the establishment of 
an S&P Global Scholarship of $100,000 over the 
next five years, along with gratis access to Market 
Intelligence’s Capital IQ data platform, to support 
student and faculty research and curriculum building. 
Students had the opportunity to focus on the critical 
skills they will need as they join the workforce and 
to engage in valuable discussions with S&P Global 
leaders about their career aspirations. 
1   McKinsey & Company. Race in the Workplace: The Black Experience in the 
U.S. Private Sector , 2021, p. 30. 
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
13
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Development and Retention
In today’s highly competitive market, companies that thrive are those that attract the best 
people, invest in their development and equip them to adapt to change. Having a talented, diverse 
global workforce in place and empowering them with the culture, resources, tools and skills they 
need for growth and success helps increase productivity, loyalty and innovation. 
In 2022, S&P Global relaunched our combined enterprise-wide learning team, Edge, to deliver programs 
and content that promote personal, team and leadership development for all colleagues. Edge 
programming includes personal and professional skills development, industry hot topic learnings and 
Create, our signature leadership development program. At the core of our development initiatives is 
the goal of helping our people grow into their fullest potential and embedding DEI in all that we do. 
For updates on our learning and development investments, please see our 2022  Impact Report .
Support for People Leaders 
Create, our signature leader development program, provided 
support and growth opportunities for People Leaders 
in 2022. Designed to ensure scalability, sustainability 
and personalization, Create supports a dual purpose: 
to develop consistent foundational capabilities for 
People Leaders and to provide support for challenges in 
uncertain times. Via interactive workshops, group coaching 
and one-to-one support, we address topics including 
conscious inclusion, navigating difficult conversations and 
performance management.  
2022 by the numbers: 
 –30+ faculty members and coaches running 200 
Create workshops attended by  1,500 People Leaders 
(more than 4,000 including repeat participants)
 –96.6%  participants would recommend Create to  
a team member
 –100% participants satisfaction  with Create  
facilitator effectiveness
Embracing people’s different ideas, 
perspectives and experiences drives 
innovation and improves overall 
performance. Thus our ability to 
attract, recruit and retain a diverse 
workforce is a critical advantage.”
Sujatha Menon Zafar  
 Vice President, DEI“
Global Career Coaching
In 2020, we introduced global career coaching, open to all of 
our people. Through this industry-leading approach, certified 
coaches offer confidential, individualized and open-ended 
support to help our people identify and fulfill their career 
aspirations. Nearly 2,400 unique individuals have engaged in 
career coaching since its launch, and in 2022, we expanded 
the Career Coaching team to four coaches globally.
 –On average, 175+ Career Coaching sessions took place 
per month in 2022.
 –Women, who make up 38.2% of our workforce, 
represented 56.87%  of those involved in 
coaching engagements.
 –Of these coaching engagements,  31.6%  of supported 
colleagues in the U.S. identified as diverse (gender/race 
and ethnicity).
According to 2022 survey feedback and data from  
coaching participants: 
would recommend Career 
Coaching to their colleagues 94%
feel that Career Coaching 
was positive 90%
feel that Career Coaching helped 
them think more effectively  
about their careers86%
The program received external recognition in 2022:
 –Featured in a May 2022 Harvard Business Review  
article as a best practice for cultivating more equitable 
access, awareness and support for internal mobility.
 –Awarded the Best Practices with Internal Coaches 
Award  in the large enterprise category for India’s Top 
100 Organizations.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
14
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Leadership Development for Women
S&P Global is committed to the equitable development of all 
global leaders. As part of our DEI strategy, we are investing in 
our women leaders throughout the organization. In addition 
to existing programs that are open to all colleagues, in 2022, 
we expanded three career development programs for our 
women leaders:  
 –PILOT  Coaching Program:  A six-month program that 
delivers virtual leadership and career development to 180 
emerging leaders through individual reflection, manager 
feedback and live virtual group coaching sessions. 
 –Cajetan  Executive Coaching Program: A six-month 
leadership and career development program for 44 of 
our senior women leaders exploring themes such as 
imposter syndrome, organizational visibility and the 
authority gap. The program is designed to harness the 
power of cohort-based learning via masterclasses, 
executive roundtables and 1:1 virtual executive coaching. 
 –MLBennett Consulting LLC (MLBC)  Sponsorship 
Program:  Designed for our women executives, this two-
year sponsorship program is virtual and customized to 20 
individual participants, leveraging 360-degree feedback, 
regular sponsor check-ins and tailored development 
plans to ensure the candidate’s visibility and success.
Thrive Performance Management
In 2022, we introduced a more flexible performance 
management program, entitled Thrive. Based on more 
than two years of research and development, Thrive is 
designed to cultivate meaningful conversations, personalize 
career opportunities and to accelerate performance. The 
feedback on this continuous performance experience has 
been positive. In our 2022 annual employee survey, our 
people reported they are having regular check-ins with 
their People Leaders, are receiving useful feedback and 
insights, and have a better understanding of their priorities.
S&P Global ’s Thrive Performance Experience was awarded 
gold at the Brandon Hall Human Capital Management (HCM) 
Excellence Awards.
Inclusive Benefits
We’re committed to providing our colleagues with a 
comprehensive, competitive and inclusive benefits package 
that caters to the needs of our diverse workforce. This 
includes a host of programs, resources and incentives 
to enable informed decisions and healthy lifestyles. Our global benefits  differ from country to country, but some 
specific offerings include the following: 
 –Paid parental leave for all parents, regardless of gender, 
welcoming a child through birth, adoption, foster or 
surrogacy for 26 weeks
 –Adoption assistance 
 –Flexible paid compassion leave following loss 
of a loved one 
 –Three months’ pay to family members following loss 
of an employee 
 –Flexible arrangements for those working from home while 
caring for family 
 –Fertility coverage and a dedicated patient care advocate
 –Family support including back-up care for children and 
adult family members
 –Tutoring services for children
 –Gender-affirmation surgery
 –Menopause support
Supporting the Wellbeing of Our People 
In addition to our comprehensive benefits, we offer 
a range of programs designed with our people’s 
physical, mental health and wellbeing in mind. 
Wellbeing is a key component of inclusion and we 
are committed to ensuring that our people have the 
tools and resources to address the challenges that 
impact how they live, work and relate to others. We 
offer several global programs to all colleagues:
 –LifeWorks Wellbeing Program – Information, 
support and resources at no cost to our people. 
Services include face-to-face or video counseling, 
referrals to wellbeing coaches, legal and financial 
consultations with licensed professionals and 
child- and elder-care matching options.
 –Lift Session Fitness – Virtual fitness classes, 
as well as “Mindful Moments” breathing, 
meditation and light stretching sessions designed 
to help release stress and improve focus.
 –Wellbeing Support Program – To help our people 
live their healthiest lifestyle, team members 
receive reimbursement for wellbeing-related 
activities that meet their specific wellness needs.
 –Life Speak – A digital wellbeing education 
platform that provides access to the world’s 
leading experts on topics ranging from Mental 
Health, Preventative Health, Family Issues, 
DEI and Professional Skills Development.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
15
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
DEI Learning 
Our DEI commitment includes learnings that promote our DEI-focused culture, values and strategy. 
Through continuous learning, colleagues across the enterprise explore how to recognize and mitigate 
bias, adopt equitable hiring and management practices, and become better allies and advocates. 
Eskalera DEI Learning Experience
In 2022, we expanded access to Eskalera, a DEI learning 
and development platform, to more of our S&P Global 
colleagues. Eskalera is an interactive tool for detailed skill-
building and practice through self-paced microlearning. 
Content covers topics such as authenticity, empathetic 
listening, allyship and psychological safety. We aim 
to equip people with the tools needed to experience 
ongoing success through knowledge, skills development, 
increased connection and meaningful insights. 
We introduced more than half of our organization to 
Eskalera in 2022. As a result, we experienced: 
colleague-led inclusion 
interactions
people enterprise-wide 
gaining access to Eskaleraincrease on average in 
knowledge and skills 
development across 
multiple areas
colleagues registering 
with the platform27,000+
21,0001.5-point
8,100
The learning journey focuses on fostering skills that are key 
for building inclusive environments, as well as increasing 
career success and job satisfaction. When colleagues feel 
heard, confidence and trust increases. In addition, we further 
support the learning experience and enable opportunities 
to form meaningful connections and dialogue through 
learning circles.
As we continue to roll out Eskalera across the organization, 
we look forward to surfacing and sharing analytical insights 
about the markers of growth. Effective Interview Skills Learning
We strive to ensure that our hiring managers and interviewers  
are supported when making hiring decisions, especially with  
diverse candidates. 
Research suggests that conducting a structured interview 
is critical to addressing bias in the hiring process. Having 
clearly defined job specifications allows the interview 
team to make more accurate hiring decisions by evaluating 
skills needed for long-term success in the role. 
Additionally, aligning on these skills eliminates common 
evaluation pitfalls – such as “culture fit” or “like me” biases. 
To better support the sourcing and selection process, in 
2022, we launched  our Effective Interview Skills training.
The training, intended for hiring managers, focuses on  
the following themes:
 –Creating a structured interview process.
 –Defining clear job specifications and using 
inclusive language.
 –Ensuring all candidates are asked the same 
set of questions.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
16
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
People Engagement
Our inclusive and equitable culture is a key source of strength for S&P Global. We have a shared 
commitment to our purpose and core values that come to life through our stories, celebrations, daily 
practices and habits. It is fundamental to how we show up each day to power the markets of the 
future and deliver impact for our people, our customers and the external environment.
Initiatives such as employee sentiment surveys, Courageous Conversations, DEI events 
and active engagement through our global People Resource Groups (PRGs) come together 
to create a sense of belonging for our people and bring this culture to life. 
VIBE Listening Platform and 2022 Survey
To facilitate an environment that embeds our vision, purpose 
and values, we encourage regular and open feedback.
VIBE (Voice, Insights, Belonging and Expectation) is 
S&P Global’s continuous listening program. It is part of a 
holistic approach that includes listening channels such as 
annual engagement surveys, pulse surveys, monthly polls 
and colleague networks. These channels allow our people to 
share feedback on their experiences, as well as our company 
strategy, development, culture and other relevant items. 
We conducted our annual VIBE survey shortly after 
our merger in 2022, establishing a baseline for future 
surveys that will enable us to track progress.
The annual VIBE Survey is our most formal listening 
channel and a key inclusion and belonging metric for the 
DEI strategy. We seek feedback on a number of key DEI 
indicators, ranging from a sense of belonging to degree 
of comfort in asking questions to leadership. We also use 
these questions to gauge awareness of DEI programs 
and policies. Using the results of the VIBE survey, we are 
better able to shape an enterprise-wide DEI strategy 
and understand areas of opportunity for particular 
businesses, geographies and diverse communities.
020406080100
201980%88% 87% 86%
2020 2021 2022
I would recommend S&P Global as a great place to work 88%
I am proud to work for S&P Global 90%
My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment 85%
I would like to be working with S&P Global one year from now 83%
Average 2022 VIBE Survey Engagement Index 86%VIBE Survey Engagement IndexCourageous Conversations and Inclusive Speaker Series
As an anti-racist organization, we believe in doing the 
work to educate and equip our people with relevant 
knowledge and tools. Our Courageous Conversations 
series is designed to create safe spaces for our people to 
connect, raise their awareness of racial equity issues and 
current thinking, equip them to be allies and advocates 
and inspire them to action. Our Inclusive Speaker Series 
complements Courageous Conversations by addressing 
issues of identity beyond race. Both series aim to shed 
light on how people ’s intersectional identities – their race, 
gender, sexuality and more – impact their lived experiences. 
2022 sessions featured speakers including Dr. Bernice 
A. King, Temple Grandin, W. Kamau Bell, Lisa Ling and 
Maria Hinojosa and attracted as many as 2,200 attendees 
per session. To ensure colleagues have space to reflect 
and connect after these important sessions, we host 
Brave Spaces open forum discussions to further explore 
these topics and offer the opportunity for colleagues 
to share their own thoughts and experiences.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
17
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
People Resource Groups and Communities
People Resource Groups (PRGs) provide a safe 
space and community for our people across diverse 
geographic, business and cultural backgrounds. United 
by intersectionality and shared purpose, our voluntary, 
colleague-led networks advocate for a more equitable future 
for all, making an impact across our people, customers 
and communities.
Building on the earlier success of affinity networks and 
employee resource groups, our PRGs help us foster 
inclusion, supporting thousands of colleagues who come 
together based on shared life and career experiences to 
advance professional development, business success and 
community engagement. 
S&P Global now proudly supports nine PRGs focused on 
the acquisition, engagement and development of talent, 
and we are deeply committed to investing in and growing 
them. Led by colleagues at all levels around the world, PRGs 
provide career-building opportunities that are unique and 
lasting. Each PRG is open for anyone to join. We welcome all 
allies, advocates, caregivers and friends. Integrating these 
networks post-merger was a priority for 2022. Worldwide, 
more than 600 colleagues serve as global and regional 
board leaders across 80+ chapters in 38 locations and 
33% of our people are members of at least one PRG. 
Additionally, Communities were launched in 2022 to 
encourage colleagues with shared interests to collaborate 
and give and receive support in a social space. In less than 
one year, more than 2,000 participants have connected on 
shared experiences such as running, cooking, gardening, 
coaching, HBCU alumni status, mindfulness, parenting 
children with disabilities, cycling and interests in wellbeing.Our PRGs are the heart of our culture 
of inclusion, driving progress and 
accelerating our momentum. Following 
our merger in 2022, our network of 
global PRGs is stronger and more 
essential to our work than ever.”
Tamara Vasquez  
Vice President, DEI“
 
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
18
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
 Customers 
Our commitment to DEI extends beyond our walls, to advancing inclusion in the products, 
services and thought leadership we offer. We infuse social equity intelligence into the  
essential data, connected technologies and expertise our customers rely on to make  
decisions with conviction. 
In our first year as a combined organization, our focus within the Customer strategic pillar  
has been to share our thought leadership through our research, convenings and participation  
in industry events.
Inclusive Products
Accessibility is a key component of inclusion. Across our various divisions, we are working to create  
products and services that are accessible to all our customers. 
While we are still in the early stages of exploring opportunities, we are proud to partner with Reach, 
our People Resource Group (PRG) that champions people with disabilities, and believe our joint efforts 
to improve accessibility will become the norm for how we create and design our products. 
Digital Accessibility Features 
In 2022, we incorporated web and mobile accessibility into 
the design and functionality of the Platts Dimensions Pro 
digital portal for benchmark price assessments, news and 
analytics insight spanning 13 commodities. To make the 
product accessible to the broadest possible audience, 
we optimized our content and made it compatible with 
assistive technologies like screen readers, voice control, 
keyboards and other devices. Based on Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines, the new accessibility features 
are perceivable, operable, understandable and robust:
 –Users with visual and cognitive disabilities can leverage 
screen reader technology on the mobile app to 
describe images. 
 –The mobile app also includes voiceover support for 
search results, menus and news for the visually impaired. 
 –The application has improved focus states, which 
enhance keyboard users ’ ability to navigate.  Accessible Graphic Design
For people with color vision deficiency (CVD, aka color 
blindness), it can be hard to distinguish certain colors. To 
assist them in using our products, in 2022, we updated our 
color palette for use in designing data visualization charts 
and graphics across S&P Global business divisions. 
In our evolved Data Visualization Color Palette, we outlined 
the recommended default color order to represent nominal 
or categorical data. It consists of colors that are distinct 
from one another to maximize a chart’s readability. We 
developed the default color order by testing to ensure 
that people with CVD can digest the information.
Looking ahead, we aim to continue to improve the 
accessibility of our products and further incorporate DEI  
into our marketing considerations.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
19
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Thought Leadership
Through multiple channels and in collaboration with academic, non-profit and private-sector partners, we 
deliver research and recommendations to advance DEI best practices. Partnerships include working with New 
Financial to create a diversity toolkit for investors  and supporting the global think tank Coqual to publish a 
study on Equity and Ethnicity at Work: A Global Exploration . We also work closely with our very own Diversity 
Research Lab, which aims to explore underrepresented questions in diversity research by pairing S&P Global’s 
data and analysis with insights from external think tanks, research organizations and academic institutions.
Diversity Research Lab
The Diversity Research Lab, consisting of a broad cross 
section of internal DEI, sustainability and research 
experts, is dedicated to examining the impact of 
social, cultural, economic and environmental factors 
on markets, economies and the private sector. It 
sponsors both proprietary and collaborative projects 
with research institutions around the world.In 2022, we continued these efforts by:
 –Producing 51 episodes , with 598,315 unique 
downloads , of the ESG Insider podcast  from 
S&P Global Sustainable1 (S1), covering a range of 
sustainability topics including human rights and DEI.
 –Launching S1’s The Social Equity & Impact Review  
newsletter, reporting on how social equity is 
shaping corporate strategy, investor activity and 
policy decisions.
 –Partnering with S&P Global Sustainable1 to 
publish research reports on topics including 
underrepresentation  in corporate workforces 
across sectors, LGBTQ+ inclusion  in the workplace, 
gender diversity  and women's leadership styles for 
advan cing diversity .
S&P Global Industry Events
Over the last few years, we have collaborated with various divisions to ensure that our leading industry 
events are reflective of our internal ethos on DEI. In 2022, we were pleased to help advance DEI 
understanding, especially in the energy and commodities and shipping and logistics sectors.
Bringing DEI to CERAWeek Programming 
CERAWeek  by S&P Global provides an integrated 
framework for understanding what’s ahead for global 
energy markets, geopolitics and technology. It is widely 
considered to be the most prestigious annual gathering 
of CEOs and ministers from global energy and utilities, as 
well as automotive, manufacturing, policy and financial 
communities, along with a growing presence of tech.  
In 2022, CERAWeek welcomed Dimitra Manis, our Chief 
Purpose Officer, as a featured speaker during the session 
“Spotlight: Developing Leadership and a New Culture for 
the Transition. ” Dimitra also spoke alongside Leanne Todd, 
S&P Global Head of Upstream Solutions, in a Women in 
Energy Dinner & Dialogue session. CERAWeek’s Women 
in Energy program identifies and celebrates women 
leaders, cultivating a community in which diversity can 
flourish and embracing an inclusive environment as the 
foundation to strengthen and empower the energy sector. Honoring DEI Leadership at TPM
S&P Global also hosts TPM, the premier conference for the 
trans-Pacific and global container shipping and logistics 
community, and TPMTech, the world’s most substantive 
two-day event for global logistics technology. Over the 
years, TPM has continued to grow, drawing more than 2,400 
industry professionals, with panel discussions, roundtables 
and speeches by key industry players, as well as networking.
Year on year, the conference has increased its commitment 
to DEI by including more diverse speakers, introducing DEI 
topics at the conference and building a DEI committee to 
advise on key issues.  
In 2022, we were delighted to launch the inaugural Salute to 
Diversity Honor . The first of its kind in the industry, the honor 
recognizes organizations across transportation and logistics 
that are driving diversity, equity and inclusion forward.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
20
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
  Communities 
We seek to accelerate progress in the communities we impact. We endeavor to invest in 
ways that support inclusive economies, focusing our efforts on expanding supplier diversity, 
collaborating with local partners and ensuring our philanthropic efforts are meaningful. 
We are a provider of essential intelligence, and enhanced disclosure is integral to our 
core values. Throughout 2022, our focus has been on integrating data from our heritage 
organizations and maintaining our commitment to visibility and transparency. Looking forward, 
we aim to build on our robust reporting and continue to expand on current disclosure.  
Supplier Diversity
Identifying, developing and sourcing products and services from diverse and traditionally 
underrepresented suppliers helps foster innovation, reduce the risk of supply chain disruptions and 
advance our commitment to DEI. S&P Global is committed to treating all vendors with integrity and to 
supporting and encouraging the aspirations of diverse groups.
Our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program  provides fair 
and equal procurement opportunities for all capable and 
competitive suppliers. S&P Global actively encourages and 
invites applications from businesses that are managed or led 
by members of underrepresented groups. 
As a result of the merger, the supplier diversity team went 
through a reorganization and reprioritization in 2022, 
including the hiring of the company’s first full-time Supplier 
Diversity Manager, to start in January 2023.
Under this new structure, the team will enhance supplier 
diversity by adjusting policy and governance to address areas 
of growth, reinvest in outreach and engagement with diverse 
groups, increase awareness internally, and build on systems 
for reporting and tracking. Our percentage of spend with U.S. diverse suppliers grew to 7.3% in 2022 from 6.5% in 2021. The 
number of U.S. diverse suppliers grew in 2022 to 295 from 
175 in the previous year. While the overall Supplier Diversity 
program was strong, organizational disruptions related to 
the merger presented some challenges. The percentage 
of sourcing events that included diverse vendors, and 
awards made to diverse vendors at those events, declined. 
However, with the new team in place, we are already seeing 
improvements, including significant new awards made to 
diverse suppliers in Q1 2023. 
Supplier diversity is also part of our inaugural sustainability-
linked bond (SLB) issuance, with a key performance 
indicator tied to increasing supplier diversity to 10% by 
the end of 2025.
2020 2021 2022
Percentage of spend with U.S. diverse suppliers (%) 6.5 6.5 7. 3
Percentage of U.S. sourcing events including diverse suppliers (%) 29 32 13
Count of U.S. diverse suppliers 161 175 295
Percentage of U.S. sourcing events awarded to diverse suppliers (%) – 24 3.7
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
21
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Partners
Our efforts to foster a more equitable society depend on meaningful engagement with community-based 
organizations. We apply a DEI lens in all of our work with community partners. Our partnerships with 
Million Women Mentors (MWM) in Pakistan and Samhita-Collective Good Foundation (CGF) in India are 
just two examples. 
Celebrating Million Women Mentors 
Million Women Mentors (MWM) is the premier network 
dedicated to encouraging girls and women around the 
world to pursue, persist and succeed in STEM careers. The 
Pakistan MWM initiative aims to catalyze commitments to 
mentor 1 million women and girls in Pakistan by 2025.
In collaboration with the U.S.-Pakistan Women’s Council 
(USPWC) and under the MWM initiative, S&P Global has 
mentored more than 12,000  women in Pakistan as part of our 
pledge to mentor 20,000 girls and women by the end of 2023. 
S&P Global was the first USPWC member to support the 
initiative, pledging in October 2019 to reach 20,000 women 
and girls to advance women’s participation and leadership 
in science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) careers.
More than 150 S&P Global mentors in Pakistan delivered 
more than 190 sessions on STEM and other diverse topics 
and volunteered more than 870  hours. The MWM initiative 
provided critical support to women during COVID-19, 
supporting Pakistani women’s economic resilience.
Our philanthropic efforts seek to honor 
the uniqueness of the communities 
where we live and work, allowing 
more people to build wealth and 
experience economic security.”
Alyson Genovese  
Vice President, Global Head of 
Corporate Responsibility“
Bringing Financial Inclusion to 
India’s Women Entrepreneurs
To help support India’s informal workers struggling to recover 
their livelihoods since the onset of the global pandemic, 
S&P Global has partnered with Samhita-CGF and India’s 
Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) to provide 
returnable grants for small entrepreneurs. Through the 
REVIVE Alliance , these entrepreneurs – especially women – 
are supported with timely, affordable and easily accessible 
capital, fostering economic recovery, resilience and growth. 
Returnable grants act as a 0% loan with no legal obligation, 
which women artisans and street vendors have invested 
in buying raw materials for their businesses. The initiative 
supports 700 women, including 500 artists and 200 street 
vendors across Gujarat. 
Building on this success, S&P Global India is currently 
partnering with Samhita-CGF to provide working capital 
support for marginalized entrepreneurs and farmers through 
a Returnable Grant. This 24-month partnership, beginning in 
2022, is spread across two projects with Access Livelihoods 
Consulting and Mann Deshi Foundation. Leveraging the 
multiplier effect of a Returnable Grant, we intend to reach 
the following impact:
 –3,000 to 3,800  women micro entrepreneurs from 
locations across Maharashtra are expected to have 
access to returnable grants over a two-year period.
 –1,100 women farmers from Kodangal, Telangana, who are 
undertaking conventional industrial mono-crop-based 
agriculture and are now transitioning to organic farming, 
are expected to access returnable grants over two years. 
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
22
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Philanthropy
Our investments in corporate citizenship help drive the development of inclusive and resilient economies, 
leaving no one behind. We leverage a variety of assets, such as the S&P Global Foundation, employee 
volunteer programs and our products and services, to provide access to tools and resources, providing 
opportunity for individuals, families and communities. 
In 2022, upon the completion of the merger, S&P Global evolved its philanthropic strategy to align with 
three key topics: diversifying technology and data, creating environmental resilience and building thriving 
communities. We also made a deliberate decision to embed DEI as an explicit, core component of each 
focus area, to build upon and strengthen our commitments.
Philanthropy at S&P Global
S&P Global accelerates progress. Our philanthropic investments help drive the 
development of inclusive and resilient economies, leaving no one behind.
Diversifying 
Technology and Data
We work to diversify the
technology and data sector by
funding job training and
placement opportunities
for individuals from
underrepresented communities.Creating Environmental  
Resilience 
We help vulnerable
communities adapt to new
climate realities and prepare
for and rebound from
climate-related disasters.Building 
Thriving Communities
Together with our employees,
we support communities
worldwide by addressing local
needs and respecting the
uniqueness of every community
where we live and work.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
23
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
S&P Global Foundation
The S&P Global Foundation strives to magnify the impact 
of our philanthropy by connecting the knowledge and 
skills of our people worldwide with societal needs. It also 
supports global disaster relief efforts aiming to drive the 
development of inclusive and resilient economies. Its 
current areas of focus include diversifying technology 
and data and creating environmental resilience. 
The S&P Global Foundation is governed by a seven-member 
Board of Directors, who represent a cross section of 
skills, geographies and perspectives. We are leveraging 
our newly endowed funding model with the $200 million 
endowment from S&P Global, and taking steps to position 
the Foundation for the greatest impact in the future. 
With the support of the Foundation Board, it has updated 
its strategic focus areas to increase alignment with our 
enterprise philanthropic philosophy. Moving forward, 
the Foundation’s programs will center on diversifying 
technology and data and creating environmental resiliency. 
Through diversifying tech and data, it will support job 
training and placement opportunities for individuals 
from underrepresented communities. Its environmental 
resiliency efforts will help vulnerable communities to 
prepare for and adapt to climate realities and climate-
related disasters. Equity and justice are cornerstones 
of both focus areas, as the ultimate objective is to 
drive inclusive and resilient economies for all. 
For more information about S&P Global Foundation and 
our philanthropic efforts, please visit the Foundation 
website  and read our 2022  Impact Report .New S&P Global Foundation Grantees Advancing DEI
Trust for Public Land  – Funding supported the 
New York City Community Schoolyards program to 
contribute to the opening of five schoolyards serving 
29,000 people, 99% of whom were people of color. 
Of this supported group, 77% were also from low-
income backgrounds and 650 were students with 
disabilities. By transforming asphalt playgrounds into 
green spaces, the projects improve student education 
outcomes, community health and clim ate resiliency.
OutRight International  – Funding supported From 
the Margins to the Center – LBQ (Lesbian, Bisexual 
and Queer) Women in International Movements 
and Space. This project includes capacity-building 
trainings for new and emerging leaders, mentorship, 
project incubator grants and promotion of LBQ 
women speaking engagements to adv ance advocacy. 
2022 S&P Global Foundation Giving
Employee
Programs 
$4.7M
Disaster Relief 
and Environment
$1.85MInclusive
Economy 
& Skills Gap
$1.9MCOVID-19 Relief
$1.1M
Equity & 
Inclusion
$1.6M Enterprise
$345K 
S&P Global Foundation Board Demographics
2 4
AsianWhite1
Black 3
4Male
Female
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
24
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
People Engagement and Volunteerism
S&P Global’s impact in the community is powered by our 
people. Through our colleague engagement programs, our 
people champion, engage and advance our commitment 
to an inclusive economy where everyone has equal 
opportunity – what we call “Building Thriving Communities. ”
All colleagues are provided with 40 hours paid leave for 
volunteer service with the organization of their choice, 
team volunteer grants of $1,500, a $5,000 matching gifts 
program and a $500 grant to a nonprofit partner where 
the employee volunteers more than 25 hours annually. 
Volunteerism is a powerful way for our colleagues to 
connect with each other and give back to organizations that 
are meaningful to them. Over a given year, our colleagues 
contribute an average of 20,000 hours volunteering globally. 
Additionally, all our People Resource Groups (PRGs) are 
provided with budgets to design and implement their own 
employee volunteer initiatives. In 2022, PRGs around the  
world hosted 50 projects.Our PRG Volunteer Projects
In 2022, more than 1,900 of our colleagues 
participated in 284 volunteer events worldwide. These 
included 414 colleagues who donated 1,809 hours 
to 50 projects as part of the efforts of the People 
Resource Groups. Some project highlights include:
United States: Skills for Cities
Together with our partner Common Impact, 
S&P Global colleagues spent the day with New 
York-based nonprofits working at the intersection 
of climate justice and racial equity. Specifically, 
our people worked with The Climate Mobilization, 
Trust for Public Land, Latin American Coalition 
and the Dan River Basin Association to tackle a 
core business challenge (e.g., in marketing, HR, 
technology, operations, program design or another 
area) to help the nonprofit advance its mission.
Hong Kong: Upcycling Workshop with 
Underrepresented Children
Our people collaborated with HandsOn Hong Kong 
Limited  to enhance social integration with people from 
other cultures. Colleagues worked with young people 
to make Chinese lanterns from recycled materials and 
played games to learn more about the Mid-Autumn 
Festival as part of Chinese culture. The group then 
donated treats and educational materials to promote 
further learning and encourage racial harmony.
Singapore: IT Literacy with Daught ers of Tomorrow
Ten of our people donated 20 hours to Daughters 
of Tomorrow ’s IT Literacy Program. Daughters 
of Tomorrow ’s mission is to facilitate livelihood 
opportunities for underprivileged women, support 
them in achieving financial independence and 
enable social mobility for their families. The IT 
Literacy Program provided training in basic computer 
skills, including Microsoft Word and Excel.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
25
S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents Customers Moving Forward Together Communities People Our Approach
Moving Forward Together
As we look to 2023 and beyond, S&P Global remains firmly committed to continuing to drive DEI for 
our people, our customers and our communities. Our newly combined company is united around 
our shared purpose and People First philosophy. In the coming year, we will advance DEI by:
 –Building on our enterprise- and division-level DEI strategies with an increased regional lens.
 –Expanding partnerships for diverse recruiting. 
 –Strengthening our culture of inclusion and belonging.
 –Further investing in DEI learning and development.
 –Evolving our DEI governance and operational practices.
Accelerating meaningful progress requires intentional actions and a high level of accountability. We 
are committed to advancing our DEI efforts and continuing to disclose and report with transparency.
This inaugural DEI Report is an important milestone for our newly combined organization, 
and we look forward to continuing to share our growth and progress.
--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---

--- dei-report-2022.pdf ---
Diversity,  
Equity and  
Inclusion 
Report
2022

Contents

From Our Chief Purpose Officer 

A Year of Progress 

2022 Awards and Recognition 

Our Approach 

People 

Governance 

Customers 

Communities 

People Movement 

Development and Retention 

DEI Learning 

People Engagement 

Inclusive Products 

Thought Leadership 

Supplier Diversity 

Partners 

Philanthropy 

People Engagement and Volunteerism 

Moving Forward Together 

3

4

5

6

7

8

12

13

15

16

18

18

19

20

20

21

22

24

25

S&P Global DEI Report 2022

2

From Our Chief 
Purpose Officer

Amid the geopolitical and social concerns that faced the 
world in 2022, S&P Global reinforced its commitment 
to diversity, equity and inclusion through our values, 
our words and most importantly, our actions.

I am incredibly proud to introduce you to this inaugural 
edition of our Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI) Report, 
which builds on our prior impact reporting and details 
the ways in which we have activated our purpose to 
Accelerate Progress through our commitment to DEI.  

We believe that diversity fuels creative insights, equity 
unlocks opportunity, and inclusion drives growth and 
innovation. Advancing DEI is a key component of our 
ambition to power global markets. It means driving 
inclusion in our products and for our customers and 
stakeholders, and it includes promoting equity for people 
and communities. 

Our People First philosophy underpins our global culture.  
We enable our people through progressive policies and 
practices, a holistic suite of benefits and philanthropic 
programs that support community engagement.

So often, it’s our People Resource Groups (PRGs) 
around the world, our communities of inclusion, that are 
seeing the needs, advocating for change and offering 
solutions. Whether it’s recommending accessible design 
features in our market offerings or advocating for greater 
understanding and action on human rights, our colleagues 
live and breathe People First.

This culture of care, and our core values of integrity, 
partnership and discovery, served us well as we completed 
our successful merger with IHS Markit in February 2022. 

Our expanded organization has brought new perspectives 
and programming for greater impact. Tailored DEI 
approaches and dedicated support for every business 
strengthen our enterprise-wide DEI strategy and create 
global momentum. 

As Chief Purpose Officer, I work with leaders across the 
business, along with my teams in DEI, People, Corporate 
Responsibility, Marketing and Communications. 
We center our DEI commitment around our people, 
partners, communities, and in our business. We ensure 
progress by linking specific DEI metrics to our leaders’ 
compensation and driving accountability and transparency 
through increased disclosure. We cultivate a continual 
feedback loop for action and improvement, including 
seeking out our colleagues’ personal experiences 
related to inclusion and opportunity at work. 

Our People First culture and commitment to measurable 
progress are accelerating our momentum and fueling our 
ambition to do more. Our business provides the essential 
data, analytics and research that deliver unparalleled 
insights to our customers on sustainability. In order to 
continue accelerating progress, we need to embrace the 
most inspirational ideas and forward-thinking practices 
from India, the United Kingdom, the United States, the 
Philippines and every place in between. I have never 
been more excited about what we can achieve together.

This report details our work to continue building a more 
diverse, equitable and inclusive company and world. 
Thanks for coming along with us on this journey.

Sincerely,

Dimitra Manis 
Chief Purpose Officer

3

S&P Global DEI Report 2022A Year of  
Progress

S&P Global’s work to Accelerate Progress in the world 
brings an opportunity to have meaningful impact for 
both the planet and our people. To support this essential 
commitment, we have have taken important steps 
to strengthen our sustainability and human capital 
disclosures, and to drive increased representation through 
recruiting partnerships and colleague engagement.  
Fostering a culture of DEI is a critical priority at the heart of 
our strategic agenda and supported by our board, CEO and 
senior leadership team.

Following completion of our merger with IHS Markit in 
February 2022, we built on a foundation of long-established 
DEI initiatives, to extend and elevate our programming for 
the newly combined organization. We have expanded our 
mandate to include a division-level and regional approach 
to DEI. Our DEI vision centers on our people, customers and 
communities, providing us with a clear direction, and our 
mission outlines our philosophy and strategy. 

We saw the value of our approach as we worked to 
integrate our global People Resource Groups (PRGs), 
which are essential to supporting our inclusive 
workplace. Our enterprise-level team provides guidance 
and structure, enabling local leaders to form new 
leadership boards, develop strategic plans and produce 
exceptional programming. Our PRGs now have more 
than 80 chapters directed by more than 600 global and 
regional board leaders worldwide and engage 33% of our 
global workforce.

We are excited to go further, led by our data-driven 

approach and our People First philosophy. This DEI 
Report is an important step in taking stock of our 
DEI efforts, increasing transparency on our progress 
and how we plan to move forward. We welcome your 
partnership in this work.

Sincerely,

Annette O’Hanlon  
Chief Corporate Responsibility & Diversity Officer

4

S&P Global DEI Report 2022About This Report

This report covers S&P Global DEI management and performance across its global footprint in 
2022, including IHS Markit data from March onward, when we completed our merger. Demographic 
data included in this report is as of December 31, 2022, unless otherwise noted. 

S&P Global’s total employee count is 39,950. However, this report excludes CARFAX, CRISIL 
and Taiwan Ratings Corp. Therefore, demographic data in this report accounts for 34,206 
employees. Unless specified, data for previous years is for S&P Global on a stand-alone basis 
prior to the merger.

We are committed to transparency of our workforce’s demographic makeup and to complying  
with disclosure regulations, including publishing country-specific gender pay gap reporting, which 
can be found on our Reports & Policies site. Our most recent consolidated U.S. Equal Employment 
Opportunity data can be found here. For data reporting and information about our third-party 
assurance, view our 2022 Impact Report.

2022 Awards and Recognition

5

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Our Approach  

At S&P Global, as the world’s foremost provider of transparent and independent ratings, 
benchmarks, analytics and data, we embrace DEI as a critical business driver and a responsibility 
owned by our global colleagues. 

As a purpose-led company, we concentrate efforts where we have the most opportunity to drive 
progress across our people, customers and communities. By focusing on our global workforce and 
aligning our priorities across our partner engagements and philanthropy, we strive for meaningful 
progress toward systemic equity. We also understand the intersectionality between DEI and 
respect for human rights, both in our operations and supply chain.  

In 2022, we built on the strengths of our new, combined company, expanding our Corporate 
Responsibility and DEI team, reinforcing our commitment to DEI and refining our key areas 
of impact. In line with our People First philosophy, we concentrated our efforts on our 
People strategic pillar, focusing on socializing the new DEI strategy across the combined 
organization, tailoring it for each of the distinct divisions, and consolidating and delivering 
established initiatives. 

We also integrated our grassroots and philanthropic efforts, refining our focus areas and 
strengthening our ability to support and help advance inclusive, resilient communities internally 
and externally. 

While we have made good progress in our first year as a combined organization, we recognize 
that there is more work to be done. We will continue to advance our DEI focus in our organization, 
through customer engagement and across our global communities, as we deliver in 2023.

6

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

DEI Strategic Pillars

People 

Customers 

Communities 

Enable our colleagues to thrive 
and feel they belong by focusing 
on strategic recruiting, investing 
in the development and retention 
of our people, and providing 
a conducive environment for 
learning and overall engagement.

Provide essential sustainability 
intelligence to our customers 
through a variety of mediums, 
such as DEI reporting, supporting 
inclusive product design and 
sharing thought leadership.

Accelerate equity in our 
communities by integrating 
DEI into our supplier diversity 
practices, working with local 
partners to devise community 
solutions, expanding our 
philanthropic activities, and 
increasing transparency 
through disclosure.

Governance

Our Board of Directors and senior management view DEI 
as critical to our long-term success, driving business 
growth and innovation, and empowering our people to 
achieve their full potential. As such, the Board regularly 
engages with our CEO, Chief Purpose Officer, Chief 
Corporate Responsibility & Diversity Officer and other 
members of senior leadership to provide oversight 
and direction on our DEI priorities and programs. 

At the management level, our Chief Purpose Officer directs 
the development and execution of our People strategy, 
working with senior leaders across the company. She 
oversees our People, DEI and Corporate Responsibility 
teams, as well as our Marketing and Communications 
functions. In addition, the Chief Purpose Officer leads our 
DEI team in working with division and functional leaders in 
implementing governance to support effective execution. 
We ensure alignment of enterprise and divisional DEI goals 
through business reviews and our balanced scorecards. 

7

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

  People

Our company’s success depends on our people. We strive to create an environment that 
encourages our colleagues around the world to feel a deep sense of belonging, where they feel 
empowered to contribute their unique insights within our company, with our customers and in 
our communities. We invest in our company by investing in our people.

Our People First philosophy is the foundation of our DEI strategy. It’s what drives our 
efforts to support our colleagues in reaching their full potential. We enable broad access to 
training and development and encourage connections that can open the door to skill growth 
and advancement.

Diversity in Our Workforce

Gender Pay Gap 

Our ability to attract, retain and develop a diverse workforce 
is critical to our long-term strategy, driving business growth 
and innovation and empowering our people to achieve their 
full potential. 

We believe that increasing data disclosure in our external 
reporting demonstrates our commitment to transparency 
and helps guide our progress with concrete metrics. 
Our reporting of global gender and U.S. race/ethnicity 
representation data provides a comprehensive view of 
our people and uses an intersectional lens when analyzing 
our workforce. In addition to 2021 data for the historical 
S&P Global company, this report includes data across our 
34,000+ colleagues in 44 countries as of the end of 2022, 
following our merger with IHS Markit. 2022 data reflects 
the merger’s expansion of our global workforce by 14,655 
people, including a significant increase in colleagues from 
the EMEA (Europe, the Middle East and Africa) region. 
This 42.8% growth in our workforce over 2021 numbers 
impacted the trajectories for some of our gender and diverse 
representation trends. This combined view establishes 
a new baseline from which we will continue to build. 

Our 2022 workforce demographics indicate priority areas  
of focus for 2023 and beyond: 

 – Increase female representation globally, currently 38.2%.

 – Further encourage self-ID campaigns to increase 

disclosure of LGBTQ+ people, those with disabilities 
and veterans, currently 1.88%, 0.38% and 0.80% 
respectively, and report globally wherever possible.

 – Build on the modest growth in our U.S. Black and  
Hispanic/Latine populations, currently 4.6% and  
5.7%, respectively. 

 – Across our U.S. critical roles, further extend the growth 
of female representation in commercial and in-demand 
technology roles, currently 37.4% and 32.1%, respectively. 

We have provided 2022 data as a snapshot of the newly 
combined S&P Global baseline. We will continue to provide 
insight on our workforce demographics in future reporting.

We recognize that equitable, competitive, fair and 
transparent compensation and reward programs improve 
outcomes for our people, our customers and our business. 
The pay equity picture is constantly changing to incorporate 
movements in the organization, such as acquisitions, 
divestitures, hiring and promotions. We continually review 
and enhance our compensation programs and practices 
to ensure fair pay for our people. Our pay gap reporting 
highlights disproportionate representation at different 
levels of seniority throughout the company; we remain 
committed to investing in women to reduce these gaps.

In 2022*:

 – Our mean gender pay gap is 14%, up from 5.8% in 2021. 

This increase is mainly due to the integration of historical 
IHS Markit people in our workforce.

 – Our mean gender bonus pay gap is 29%, unchanged  

from 2021. 

 – In our efforts to enhance transparency, we are reporting 
the ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to 
men for the first time, which is at 84%.

We will continue to focus on identifying and addressing 
our gap through recruitment activities, talent planning, 
professional development and compensation.

Our gender pay gap reports are available on our  
Reports & Policies site.

Pay Equity

Following the merger with IHS Markit, we will be 
examining pay equity across the combined organization 
in 2023 and expect to report further on our progress. 
To review our prior pay equity summary, read our 
2021 Impact Report, published in May 2022.

*This data reflects all S&P Global people as of December 31, 2022, with the 
exception of CRISIL, Taiwan Ratings, S&P Guild and union team members, 
which are excluded due to their different compensation structures.

8

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Our Global Presence

North America
10,297 people
3,864 women 
(37.53%)

EMEA
5,410 people
2,048 women 
(37.86%)

APAC excl. India
5,189 people
2,411 women 
(46.46%)

Latin America
694 people
345 women 
(49.71%)

India Region
12,616 people
4,402 women 
(34.89%)

38.21%

women globally

EMEA: Europe, Middle East and Africa 
APAC: Asia-Pacific

Data as of December 31, 2022. Excludes CRISIL, CARFAX, Taiwan Ratings Corp. 
The race/ethnicity group ‘Other’ includes: Native American or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or other Pacific Islander, two or more races. 
North America data includes Canada.

9

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Global Age Groups*

11.5% >50 years old
(3,936)

27.1%

(9,276)
<30 years old

61.4%

(20,987)
30-50 years old

*Excludes 7 non-disclosed employees

Global Employees by Location

2.0% LatAm
(694)

15.8%

(5,410)
EMEA

30.1%

(10,297)
North America

52.0%

(17,805)
APAC

U.S. Ethnicity % – Year-over-Year

2021 

2022 

0

48.6

53.4

25

2021
2022

2021
2022

2021
2022

Global Gender Representation – Year-over-Year

Female (%)

Male (%)

Global

Senior management

Junior management

Management

Revenue-generating
functions

STEM

0

38.9
38.2  

45.0

30.0   

34.3
32.5   

33.9
31.1  

38.8

39.7   

32.7
31.7  

25

61.1
61.8

55.0
70.0

65.7
67.5

66.1
68.9

61.2
60.3

67.3
68.3

50

75

100

U.S. Ethnicity by Female % – Year-over-Year

Female (%)

Male (%)

White

Asian

Hispanic/Latine

Black

Two or more races

Native American or
Alaskan Native
Other

Unspecified

0

39.2

36.6%

41.3
40.7

46.7
45.0

51.7

46.8

25.8

40.7

38.8

42.9

42.9

31.7
31.7
25

60.8
63.4
58.7
59.3
53.3
55.0
48.3
53.2
59.3
61.2
57.1
74.2
40.0
57.1
68.3
68.3

60.0

50

75

100

U.S. Diverse Representation as Self-Identified – Year-over-Year

LGBTQ+

People with
Disabilities

Veterans

0.99% 
1.88% 
0.44% 
0.38% 
1.16% 
0.80% 

0

25

50

75

100

0.3 0.1

21.6

5.0

4.5 2.3

17.6

19.2

5.7

4.6

14.7

50

75

1.9

0.3

0.0

Two or more races

100
(%)

White

Asian

Hispanic/Latine

Native American or Alaskan Native

Other

Black

Unspecified

–   All of S&P Global excluding CRISIL, CARFAX and Taiwan Ratings Corp. 2022 data is post-merger and includes the IHS Markit employee population. 
–   As of December 31, 2022, 781 former IHS Markit employees were not assigned a comparable S&P Global job family and level profile; for this reporting, they were 

assigned a job family and level profile based on their historical job framework identification. Among this group, 228 had no comparable job family assignment and 
thus were not assessed for the job discipline-related measures such as Revenue Generating, STEM, Analysts/Tech/Sales.

–   Data reflects self-identified ethnicity for U.S. employees as of December 31, 2022.

10

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Critical U.S. Roles by Gender and Ethnicity

U.S. Analytical Roles

7.3% (46)

3.5% (22)

1.9% (12)

Female
(628)

50.1%
(315)

20.5%
(129)

16.5%
(104)

6.0% (69)

3.8% (44)

2.1% (24)

Male
 (1,141)

All
(1,773)

0

U.S. Commercial Roles

57.0%
(651)

13.6%
(156)

17.2%
(197)

3.7% (66)

54.4%
(966)

500

16.1%
(286)

6.5%
(115)

2.0% (36)

17.1%
(304)

1000

1500

2000

9.4% (56)
8.2% (49)

62.6%
(372)

65.3%
(646)

5.4% (32)
3.2% (19)
11.1% (66)

4.4% (44)
5.7% (57)
4.4% (44)
2.8% (28)
17.2%
(170)

64.2%
(1,019)

500

5.8%
(93)

7.1%
(113)

1000

Female
(594)

Male
(989)

All
(1,587)

0

4.8% (76)
2.9% (47)

15.0%
(239)

1500

2000

U.S. In-Demand Technology Roles

Female
(75)

41.3%
(31)

37.3%
(28)

Male
    (157)

All
(234)

0

47.1%
(74)

45.3%
(106)

50

2.6% (2)

2.6% (2)
2.6% (2)
13.3% (10)

2.5% (4)

28.0%
(44)

100

7.6% (12)

1.9%(3)

12.7%
(20)

30.7%
(72)

150

2.5% (6)

5.9% (14)

2.1% (5)

13.2%
(31)

200

250

White

Asian

Hispanic/Latine

Black

Other

Not Specified

–   All of S&P Global excluding CRISIL, CARFAX and Taiwan Ratings Corp. 2022 data is post-merger and includes the IHS Markit employee population. 
–   As of December 31, 2022, 781 former IHS Markit employees were not assigned a comparable S&P Global job family and level profile; for this reporting, they were 

assigned a job family and level profile based on their historical job framework identification. Among this group, 228 had no comparable job family assignment and 
thus were not assessed for the job discipline-related measures such as Revenue Generating, STEM, Analysts/Tech/Sales.

–   Data reflects self-identified ethnicity for U.S. employees as of December 31, 2022.
–  “Other” includes Other, Two or more Races, Native American. “Male” and “Female” may not total "All," because "All" includes those who did not disclose.

11

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

People Movement

The diverse characteristics and perspectives that our people bring to S&P Global give us a real and  
vital competitive edge. We are deliberate in building the partnerships and pipelines needed to attract 
colleagues across all backgrounds and lived experiences. 

Recruiting Partnerships 

HBCU Engagement

S&P Global embeds DEI into our recruiting and internal 
mobility processes. By doing so, we aim to increase 
the pool of diverse candidates at all levels and ensure 
that our hiring processes are fully supportive and 
equitable. We do this in several ways, including:

 – Investing in targeted external DEI-focused events, job 
fairs, partnerships and other recruiting opportunities. 

 – Participating in key career fairs and partnering with key 

external vendors to position our company as an employer 
of choice for underrepresented colleagues.

 – Engaging with historically Black colleges and universities 

(HBCUs) through mutually beneficial partnerships 
focused on brand awareness, community support and 
talent acquisition.

Attracting Early-Career Talent in the UK 

To attract diverse talent, S&P Global works with a 
number of partners in early-career recruitment, 
including 10,000 Black Interns in the United Kingdom. 
The program offers paid internship opportunities 
across more than 25 sectors, in addition to training and 
development opportunities. For several years, we have 
proudly welcomed interns through this partnership.

Increasing our Efforts to Hire People with Disabilities

Throughout 2022, we continued to expand our 
efforts to hire and support colleagues with 
disabilities. We began a partnership with v-shesh, 
an award-winning impact enterprise that prepares 
job seekers with opportunities and organizations 
with disability inclusion. We hired 23 people in 
India across our business in 2022. We plan to 
expand our partnership with v-shesh to further 
support the community, and we continue to work 
closely with our Reach People Resource Group 
(PRG) to champion our people with disabilities.

To increase the representation of Black colleagues in 
our U.S. workforce – currently 4.6% compared to 12% 
across the U.S. private sector1 – in 2022, we launched 
an initiative to attract Black talent through meaningful 
engagement with HBCUs. Through long-term, intentional 
engagements, we aim to improve our hiring of Black 
students and HBCU alumni, while lending our philanthropy, 
research tools and subject matter expertise to bolster 
education and research capabilities at partner HBCUs. 

We identified a few HBCUs for pilot initiatives kicking off 
with Texas Southern University in Houston and Jackson 
State University in Mississippi. Additionally, we are 
working with the National Black MBA Association and 
other partners to engage more with HBCUs through 
skills-building presentations and other support.

Complementing these strategic partnerships, we are 
exploring innovative ways to engage HBCU students, 
through global competitions and topical industry events. 

“

By taking a deliberate approach, we are 
building long-term partnerships that will 
strengthen historically Black colleges 
and universities and our own ability 
to attract and retain Black talent.” 

Cheryl Baxter 
Vice President, DEI

Partnership Kicks Off at Texas Southern University

In September 2022, we hosted the first S&P Global 
Day at Texas Southern University (TSU) in Houston. 
The daylong program included a professional 
development session and the establishment of 
an S&P Global Scholarship of $100,000 over the 
next five years, along with gratis access to Market 
Intelligence’s Capital IQ data platform, to support 
student and faculty research and curriculum building. 

Students had the opportunity to focus on the critical 
skills they will need as they join the workforce and 
to engage in valuable discussions with S&P Global 
leaders about their career aspirations. 

1 

  McKinsey & Company. Race in the Workplace: The Black Experience in the 
U.S. Private Sector, 2021, p. 30. 

12

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Development and Retention

In today’s highly competitive market, companies that thrive are those that attract the best 
people, invest in their development and equip them to adapt to change. Having a talented, diverse 
global workforce in place and empowering them with the culture, resources, tools and skills they 
need for growth and success helps increase productivity, loyalty and innovation. 

In 2022, S&P Global relaunched our combined enterprise-wide learning team, Edge, to deliver programs 
and content that promote personal, team and leadership development for all colleagues. Edge 
programming includes personal and professional skills development, industry hot topic learnings and 
Create, our signature leadership development program. At the core of our development initiatives is 
the goal of helping our people grow into their fullest potential and embedding DEI in all that we do. 
For updates on our learning and development investments, please see our 2022 Impact Report.

Support for People Leaders 

Global Career Coaching

Create, our signature leader development program, provided 
support and growth opportunities for People Leaders 
in 2022. Designed to ensure scalability, sustainability 
and personalization, Create supports a dual purpose: 
to develop consistent foundational capabilities for 
People Leaders and to provide support for challenges in 
uncertain times. Via interactive workshops, group coaching 
and one-to-one support, we address topics including 
conscious inclusion, navigating difficult conversations and 
performance management.  

In 2020, we introduced global career coaching, open to all of 
our people. Through this industry-leading approach, certified 
coaches offer confidential, individualized and open-ended 
support to help our people identify and fulfill their career 
aspirations. Nearly 2,400 unique individuals have engaged in 
career coaching since its launch, and in 2022, we expanded 
the Career Coaching team to four coaches globally.

 – On average, 175+ Career Coaching sessions took place 

per month in 2022.

2022 by the numbers: 

 – 30+ faculty members and coaches running 200 

Create workshops attended by 1,500 People Leaders 
(more than 4,000 including repeat participants)

 – 96.6% participants would recommend Create to  

a team member

 – 100% participants satisfaction with Create  

facilitator effectiveness

“

Embracing people’s different ideas, 
perspectives and experiences drives 
innovation and improves overall 
performance. Thus our ability to 
attract, recruit and retain a diverse 
workforce is a critical advantage.”

Sujatha Menon Zafar 
 Vice President, DEI

 – Women, who make up 38.2% of our workforce, 
represented 56.87% of those involved in 
coaching engagements.

 – Of these coaching engagements, 31.6% of supported 

colleagues in the U.S. identified as diverse (gender/race 
and ethnicity).

According to 2022 survey feedback and data from  
coaching participants: 

94%

90%

86%

would recommend Career 
Coaching to their colleagues

feel that Career Coaching 
was positive

feel that Career Coaching helped 
them think more effectively  
about their careers

The program received external recognition in 2022:

 – Featured in a May 2022 Harvard Business Review 

article as a best practice for cultivating more equitable 
access, awareness and support for internal mobility.

 – Awarded the Best Practices with Internal Coaches 

Award in the large enterprise category for India’s Top 
100 Organizations.

13

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Leadership Development for Women

S&P Global is committed to the equitable development of all 
global leaders. As part of our DEI strategy, we are investing in 
our women leaders throughout the organization. In addition 
to existing programs that are open to all colleagues, in 2022, 
we expanded three career development programs for our 
women leaders:  

Our global benefits differ from country to country, but some 
specific offerings include the following: 

 – Paid parental leave for all parents, regardless of gender, 
welcoming a child through birth, adoption, foster or 
surrogacy for 26 weeks

 – Adoption assistance 

 – PILOT Coaching Program: A six-month program that 

 – Flexible paid compassion leave following loss 

delivers virtual leadership and career development to 180 
emerging leaders through individual reflection, manager 
feedback and live virtual group coaching sessions. 

 – Cajetan Executive Coaching Program: A six-month 

leadership and career development program for 44 of 
our senior women leaders exploring themes such as 
imposter syndrome, organizational visibility and the 
authority gap. The program is designed to harness the 
power of cohort-based learning via masterclasses, 
executive roundtables and 1:1 virtual executive coaching. 

 – MLBennett Consulting LLC (MLBC) Sponsorship 

Program: Designed for our women executives, this two-
year sponsorship program is virtual and customized to 20 
individual participants, leveraging 360-degree feedback, 
regular sponsor check-ins and tailored development 
plans to ensure the candidate’s visibility and success.

Thrive Performance Management

In 2022, we introduced a more flexible performance 
management program, entitled Thrive. Based on more 
than two years of research and development, Thrive is 
designed to cultivate meaningful conversations, personalize 
career opportunities and to accelerate performance. The 
feedback on this continuous performance experience has 
been positive. In our 2022 annual employee survey, our 
people reported they are having regular check-ins with 
their People Leaders, are receiving useful feedback and 
insights, and have a better understanding of their priorities.

S&P Global’s Thrive Performance Experience was awarded 
gold at the Brandon Hall Human Capital Management (HCM) 
Excellence Awards.

Inclusive Benefits

We’re committed to providing our colleagues with a 
comprehensive, competitive and inclusive benefits package 
that caters to the needs of our diverse workforce. This 
includes a host of programs, resources and incentives 
to enable informed decisions and healthy lifestyles. 

of a loved one 

 – Three months’ pay to family members following loss 

of an employee 

 – Flexible arrangements for those working from home while 

caring for family 

 – Fertility coverage and a dedicated patient care advocate

 – Family support including back-up care for children and 

adult family members

 – Tutoring services for children

 – Gender-affirmation surgery

 – Menopause support

Supporting the Wellbeing of Our People 

In addition to our comprehensive benefits, we offer 
a range of programs designed with our people’s 
physical, mental health and wellbeing in mind. 
Wellbeing is a key component of inclusion and we 
are committed to ensuring that our people have the 
tools and resources to address the challenges that 
impact how they live, work and relate to others. We 
offer several global programs to all colleagues:

 – LifeWorks Wellbeing Program – Information, 

support and resources at no cost to our people. 
Services include face-to-face or video counseling, 
referrals to wellbeing coaches, legal and financial 
consultations with licensed professionals and 
child- and elder-care matching options.

 – Lift Session Fitness – Virtual fitness classes, 
as well as “Mindful Moments” breathing, 
meditation and light stretching sessions designed 
to help release stress and improve focus.

 – Wellbeing Support Program – To help our people 
live their healthiest lifestyle, team members 
receive reimbursement for wellbeing-related 
activities that meet their specific wellness needs.

 – Life Speak – A digital wellbeing education 

platform that provides access to the world’s 
leading experts on topics ranging from Mental 
Health, Preventative Health, Family Issues, 
DEI and Professional Skills Development.

14

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

DEI Learning 

Our DEI commitment includes learnings that promote our DEI-focused culture, values and strategy. 
Through continuous learning, colleagues across the enterprise explore how to recognize and mitigate 
bias, adopt equitable hiring and management practices, and become better allies and advocates. 

Eskalera DEI Learning Experience

Effective Interview Skills Learning

We strive to ensure that our hiring managers and interviewers  
are supported when making hiring decisions, especially with  
diverse candidates. 

Research suggests that conducting a structured interview 
is critical to addressing bias in the hiring process. Having 
clearly defined job specifications allows the interview 
team to make more accurate hiring decisions by evaluating 
skills needed for long-term success in the role. 

Additionally, aligning on these skills eliminates common 
evaluation pitfalls – such as “culture fit” or “like me” biases. 
To better support the sourcing and selection process, in 
2022, we launched our Effective Interview Skills training.

The training, intended for hiring managers, focuses on  
the following themes:

 – Creating a structured interview process.

 – Defining clear job specifications and using 

inclusive language.

 – Ensuring all candidates are asked the same 

set of questions.

In 2022, we expanded access to Eskalera, a DEI learning 
and development platform, to more of our S&P Global 
colleagues. Eskalera is an interactive tool for detailed skill-
building and practice through self-paced microlearning. 
Content covers topics such as authenticity, empathetic 
listening, allyship and psychological safety. We aim 
to equip people with the tools needed to experience 
ongoing success through knowledge, skills development, 
increased connection and meaningful insights. 

We introduced more than half of our organization to 
Eskalera in 2022. As a result, we experienced: 

27,000+

colleague-led inclusion 
interactions

1.5-point

increase on average in 
knowledge and skills 
development across 
multiple areas

21,000

8,100

people enterprise-wide 
gaining access to Eskalera

colleagues registering 
with the platform

The learning journey focuses on fostering skills that are key 
for building inclusive environments, as well as increasing 
career success and job satisfaction. When colleagues feel 
heard, confidence and trust increases. In addition, we further 
support the learning experience and enable opportunities 
to form meaningful connections and dialogue through 
learning circles.

As we continue to roll out Eskalera across the organization, 
we look forward to surfacing and sharing analytical insights 
about the markers of growth. 

15

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

People Engagement

Our inclusive and equitable culture is a key source of strength for S&P Global. We have a shared 
commitment to our purpose and core values that come to life through our stories, celebrations, daily 
practices and habits. It is fundamental to how we show up each day to power the markets of the 
future and deliver impact for our people, our customers and the external environment.

Initiatives such as employee sentiment surveys, Courageous Conversations, DEI events 
and active engagement through our global People Resource Groups (PRGs) come together 
to create a sense of belonging for our people and bring this culture to life. 

VIBE Listening Platform and 2022 Survey

Courageous Conversations and Inclusive Speaker Series

To facilitate an environment that embeds our vision, purpose 
and values, we encourage regular and open feedback.

VIBE (Voice, Insights, Belonging and Expectation) is 
S&P Global’s continuous listening program. It is part of a 
holistic approach that includes listening channels such as 
annual engagement surveys, pulse surveys, monthly polls 
and colleague networks. These channels allow our people to 
share feedback on their experiences, as well as our company 
strategy, development, culture and other relevant items. 

We conducted our annual VIBE survey shortly after 
our merger in 2022, establishing a baseline for future 
surveys that will enable us to track progress.

The annual VIBE Survey is our most formal listening 
channel and a key inclusion and belonging metric for the 
DEI strategy. We seek feedback on a number of key DEI 
indicators, ranging from a sense of belonging to degree 
of comfort in asking questions to leadership. We also use 
these questions to gauge awareness of DEI programs 
and policies. Using the results of the VIBE survey, we are 
better able to shape an enterprise-wide DEI strategy 
and understand areas of opportunity for particular 
businesses, geographies and diverse communities.

VIBE Survey Engagement Index

As an anti-racist organization, we believe in doing the 
work to educate and equip our people with relevant 
knowledge and tools. Our Courageous Conversations 
series is designed to create safe spaces for our people to 
connect, raise their awareness of racial equity issues and 
current thinking, equip them to be allies and advocates 
and inspire them to action. Our Inclusive Speaker Series 
complements Courageous Conversations by addressing 
issues of identity beyond race. Both series aim to shed 
light on how people’s intersectional identities – their race, 
gender, sexuality and more – impact their lived experiences. 

2022 sessions featured speakers including Dr. Bernice 
A. King, Temple Grandin, W. Kamau Bell, Lisa Ling and 
Maria Hinojosa and attracted as many as 2,200 attendees 
per session. To ensure colleagues have space to reflect 
and connect after these important sessions, we host 
Brave Spaces open forum discussions to further explore 
these topics and offer the opportunity for colleagues 
to share their own thoughts and experiences.

88%

87%

86%

80%

100

80

60

40

20

0

2019

2020

2021

2022

I would recommend S&P Global as a great place to work

I am proud to work for S&P Global

My work gives me a feeling of personal accomplishment

I would like to be working with S&P Global one year from now

Average 2022 VIBE Survey Engagement Index

88%

90%

85%

83%

86%

16

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

People Resource Groups and Communities

People Resource Groups (PRGs) provide a safe 
space and community for our people across diverse 
geographic, business and cultural backgrounds. United 
by intersectionality and shared purpose, our voluntary, 
colleague-led networks advocate for a more equitable future 
for all, making an impact across our people, customers 
and communities.

“

Our PRGs are the heart of our culture 
of inclusion, driving progress and 
accelerating our momentum. Following 
our merger in 2022, our network of 
global PRGs is stronger and more 
essential to our work than ever.”

Tamara Vasquez 
Vice President, DEI

Building on the earlier success of affinity networks and 
employee resource groups, our PRGs help us foster 
inclusion, supporting thousands of colleagues who come 
together based on shared life and career experiences to 
advance professional development, business success and 
community engagement. 

S&P Global now proudly supports nine PRGs focused on 
the acquisition, engagement and development of talent, 
and we are deeply committed to investing in and growing 
them. Led by colleagues at all levels around the world, PRGs 
provide career-building opportunities that are unique and 
lasting. Each PRG is open for anyone to join. We welcome all 
allies, advocates, caregivers and friends. Integrating these 
networks post-merger was a priority for 2022. Worldwide, 
more than 600 colleagues serve as global and regional 
board leaders across 80+ chapters in 38 locations and 
33% of our people are members of at least one PRG. 

Additionally, Communities were launched in 2022 to 
encourage colleagues with shared interests to collaborate 
and give and receive support in a social space. In less than 
one year, more than 2,000 participants have connected on 
shared experiences such as running, cooking, gardening, 
coaching, HBCU alumni status, mindfulness, parenting 
children with disabilities, cycling and interests in wellbeing.

17

S&P Global DEI Report 2022 
Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

 Customers 

Our commitment to DEI extends beyond our walls, to advancing inclusion in the products, 
services and thought leadership we offer. We infuse social equity intelligence into the  
essential data, connected technologies and expertise our customers rely on to make  
decisions with conviction. 

In our first year as a combined organization, our focus within the Customer strategic pillar  
has been to share our thought leadership through our research, convenings and participation  
in industry events.

Inclusive Products

Accessibility is a key component of inclusion. Across our various divisions, we are working to create  
products and services that are accessible to all our customers. 

While we are still in the early stages of exploring opportunities, we are proud to partner with Reach, 
our People Resource Group (PRG) that champions people with disabilities, and believe our joint efforts 
to improve accessibility will become the norm for how we create and design our products. 

Digital Accessibility Features 

Accessible Graphic Design

In 2022, we incorporated web and mobile accessibility into 
the design and functionality of the Platts Dimensions Pro 
digital portal for benchmark price assessments, news and 
analytics insight spanning 13 commodities. To make the 
product accessible to the broadest possible audience, 
we optimized our content and made it compatible with 
assistive technologies like screen readers, voice control, 
keyboards and other devices. Based on Web Content 
Accessibility Guidelines, the new accessibility features 
are perceivable, operable, understandable and robust:

 – Users with visual and cognitive disabilities can leverage 

screen reader technology on the mobile app to 
describe images. 

 – The mobile app also includes voiceover support for 

search results, menus and news for the visually impaired. 

 – The application has improved focus states, which 
enhance keyboard users’ ability to navigate.  

For people with color vision deficiency (CVD, aka color 
blindness), it can be hard to distinguish certain colors. To 
assist them in using our products, in 2022, we updated our 
color palette for use in designing data visualization charts 
and graphics across S&P Global business divisions. 

In our evolved Data Visualization Color Palette, we outlined 
the recommended default color order to represent nominal 
or categorical data. It consists of colors that are distinct 
from one another to maximize a chart’s readability. We 
developed the default color order by testing to ensure 
that people with CVD can digest the information.

Looking ahead, we aim to continue to improve the 
accessibility of our products and further incorporate DEI  
into our marketing considerations.

18

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Thought Leadership

Through multiple channels and in collaboration with academic, non-profit and private-sector partners, we 
deliver research and recommendations to advance DEI best practices. Partnerships include working with New 
Financial to create a diversity toolkit for investors and supporting the global think tank Coqual to publish a 
study on Equity and Ethnicity at Work: A Global Exploration. We also work closely with our very own Diversity 
Research Lab, which aims to explore underrepresented questions in diversity research by pairing S&P Global’s 
data and analysis with insights from external think tanks, research organizations and academic institutions.

Diversity Research Lab

In 2022, we continued these efforts by:

The Diversity Research Lab, consisting of a broad cross 
section of internal DEI, sustainability and research 
experts, is dedicated to examining the impact of 
social, cultural, economic and environmental factors 
on markets, economies and the private sector. It 
sponsors both proprietary and collaborative projects 
with research institutions around the world.

 – Producing 51 episodes, with 598,315 unique 
downloads, of the ESG Insider podcast from 
S&P Global Sustainable1 (S1), covering a range of 
sustainability topics including human rights and DEI.

 – Launching S1’s The Social Equity & Impact Review 
newsletter, reporting on how social equity is 
shaping corporate strategy, investor activity and 
policy decisions.

 – Partnering with S&P Global Sustainable1 to 

publish research reports on topics including 
underrepresentation in corporate workforces 
across sectors, LGBTQ+ inclusion in the workplace, 
gender diversity and women's leadership styles for 
advancing diversity.

S&P Global Industry Events

Over the last few years, we have collaborated with various divisions to ensure that our leading industry 
events are reflective of our internal ethos on DEI. In 2022, we were pleased to help advance DEI 
understanding, especially in the energy and commodities and shipping and logistics sectors.

Bringing DEI to CERAWeek Programming 

Honoring DEI Leadership at TPM

CERAWeek by S&P Global provides an integrated 
framework for understanding what’s ahead for global 
energy markets, geopolitics and technology. It is widely 
considered to be the most prestigious annual gathering 
of CEOs and ministers from global energy and utilities, as 
well as automotive, manufacturing, policy and financial 
communities, along with a growing presence of tech.  

S&P Global also hosts TPM, the premier conference for the 
trans-Pacific and global container shipping and logistics 
community, and TPMTech, the world’s most substantive 
two-day event for global logistics technology. Over the 
years, TPM has continued to grow, drawing more than 2,400 
industry professionals, with panel discussions, roundtables 
and speeches by key industry players, as well as networking.

In 2022, CERAWeek welcomed Dimitra Manis, our Chief 
Purpose Officer, as a featured speaker during the session 
“Spotlight: Developing Leadership and a New Culture for 
the Transition.” Dimitra also spoke alongside Leanne Todd, 
S&P Global Head of Upstream Solutions, in a Women in 
Energy Dinner & Dialogue session. CERAWeek’s Women 
in Energy program identifies and celebrates women 
leaders, cultivating a community in which diversity can 
flourish and embracing an inclusive environment as the 
foundation to strengthen and empower the energy sector. 

Year on year, the conference has increased its commitment 
to DEI by including more diverse speakers, introducing DEI 
topics at the conference and building a DEI committee to 
advise on key issues.  

In 2022, we were delighted to launch the inaugural Salute to 
Diversity Honor. The first of its kind in the industry, the honor 
recognizes organizations across transportation and logistics 
that are driving diversity, equity and inclusion forward.

19

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

  Communities 

We seek to accelerate progress in the communities we impact. We endeavor to invest in 
ways that support inclusive economies, focusing our efforts on expanding supplier diversity, 
collaborating with local partners and ensuring our philanthropic efforts are meaningful. 

We are a provider of essential intelligence, and enhanced disclosure is integral to our 
core values. Throughout 2022, our focus has been on integrating data from our heritage 
organizations and maintaining our commitment to visibility and transparency. Looking forward, 
we aim to build on our robust reporting and continue to expand on current disclosure.  

Supplier Diversity

Identifying, developing and sourcing products and services from diverse and traditionally 
underrepresented suppliers helps foster innovation, reduce the risk of supply chain disruptions and 
advance our commitment to DEI. S&P Global is committed to treating all vendors with integrity and to 
supporting and encouraging the aspirations of diverse groups.

Our U.S.-based Supplier Diversity Program provides fair 
and equal procurement opportunities for all capable and 
competitive suppliers. S&P Global actively encourages and 
invites applications from businesses that are managed or led 
by members of underrepresented groups. 

As a result of the merger, the supplier diversity team went 
through a reorganization and reprioritization in 2022, 
including the hiring of the company’s first full-time Supplier 
Diversity Manager, to start in January 2023.

Under this new structure, the team will enhance supplier 
diversity by adjusting policy and governance to address areas 
of growth, reinvest in outreach and engagement with diverse 
groups, increase awareness internally, and build on systems 
for reporting and tracking. Our percentage of spend with U.S. 

diverse suppliers grew to 7.3% in 2022 from 6.5% in 2021. The 
number of U.S. diverse suppliers grew in 2022 to 295 from 
175 in the previous year. While the overall Supplier Diversity 
program was strong, organizational disruptions related to 
the merger presented some challenges. The percentage 
of sourcing events that included diverse vendors, and 
awards made to diverse vendors at those events, declined. 
However, with the new team in place, we are already seeing 
improvements, including significant new awards made to 
diverse suppliers in Q1 2023. 

Supplier diversity is also part of our inaugural sustainability-
linked bond (SLB) issuance, with a key performance 
indicator tied to increasing supplier diversity to 10% by 
the end of 2025.

Percentage of spend with U.S. diverse suppliers (%)

Percentage of U.S. sourcing events including diverse suppliers (%)

Count of U.S. diverse suppliers

Percentage of U.S. sourcing events awarded to diverse suppliers (%)

2020

2021

2022

6.5

29

161

–

6.5

32

175

24

7.3

13

295

3.7

20

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Partners

Our efforts to foster a more equitable society depend on meaningful engagement with community-based 
organizations. We apply a DEI lens in all of our work with community partners. Our partnerships with 
Million Women Mentors (MWM) in Pakistan and Samhita-Collective Good Foundation (CGF) in India are 
just two examples. 

Celebrating Million Women Mentors 

Million Women Mentors (MWM) is the premier network 
dedicated to encouraging girls and women around the 
world to pursue, persist and succeed in STEM careers. The 
Pakistan MWM initiative aims to catalyze commitments to 
mentor 1 million women and girls in Pakistan by 2025.

In collaboration with the U.S.-Pakistan Women’s Council 
(USPWC) and under the MWM initiative, S&P Global has 
mentored more than 12,000 women in Pakistan as part of our 
pledge to mentor 20,000 girls and women by the end of 2023. 
S&P Global was the first USPWC member to support the 
initiative, pledging in October 2019 to reach 20,000 women 
and girls to advance women’s participation and leadership 
in science, technology, engineering and mathematics 
(STEM) careers.

More than 150 S&P Global mentors in Pakistan delivered 
more than 190 sessions on STEM and other diverse topics 
and volunteered more than 870 hours. The MWM initiative 
provided critical support to women during COVID-19, 
supporting Pakistani women’s economic resilience.

“

Our philanthropic efforts seek to honor 
the uniqueness of the communities 
where we live and work, allowing 
more people to build wealth and 
experience economic security.”

Alyson Genovese 
Vice President, Global Head of 
Corporate Responsibility

Bringing Financial Inclusion to 
India’s Women Entrepreneurs

To help support India’s informal workers struggling to recover 
their livelihoods since the onset of the global pandemic, 
S&P Global has partnered with Samhita-CGF and India’s 
Self Employed Women’s Association (SEWA) to provide 
returnable grants for small entrepreneurs. Through the 
REVIVE Alliance, these entrepreneurs – especially women – 
are supported with timely, affordable and easily accessible 
capital, fostering economic recovery, resilience and growth. 

Returnable grants act as a 0% loan with no legal obligation, 
which women artisans and street vendors have invested 
in buying raw materials for their businesses. The initiative 
supports 700 women, including 500 artists and 200 street 
vendors across Gujarat. 

Building on this success, S&P Global India is currently 
partnering with Samhita-CGF to provide working capital 
support for marginalized entrepreneurs and farmers through 
a Returnable Grant. This 24-month partnership, beginning in 
2022, is spread across two projects with Access Livelihoods 
Consulting and Mann Deshi Foundation. Leveraging the 
multiplier effect of a Returnable Grant, we intend to reach 
the following impact:

 – 3,000 to 3,800 women micro entrepreneurs from 

locations across Maharashtra are expected to have 
access to returnable grants over a two-year period.

 – 1,100 women farmers from Kodangal, Telangana, who are 
undertaking conventional industrial mono-crop-based 
agriculture and are now transitioning to organic farming, 
are expected to access returnable grants over two years. 

21

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Philanthropy

Our investments in corporate citizenship help drive the development of inclusive and resilient economies, 
leaving no one behind. We leverage a variety of assets, such as the S&P Global Foundation, employee 
volunteer programs and our products and services, to provide access to tools and resources, providing 
opportunity for individuals, families and communities. 

In 2022, upon the completion of the merger, S&P Global evolved its philanthropic strategy to align with 
three key topics: diversifying technology and data, creating environmental resilience and building thriving 
communities. We also made a deliberate decision to embed DEI as an explicit, core component of each 
focus area, to build upon and strengthen our commitments.

Philanthropy at S&P Global

S&P Global accelerates progress. Our philanthropic investments help drive the 
development of inclusive and resilient economies, leaving no one behind.

Diversifying 
Technology and Data

Creating Environmental  
Resilience 

Building 
Thriving Communities

We work to diversify the
technology and data sector by
funding job training and
placement opportunities
for individuals from
underrepresented communities.

We help vulnerable
communities adapt to new
climate realities and prepare
for and rebound from
climate-related disasters.

Together with our employees,
we support communities
worldwide by addressing local
needs and respecting the
uniqueness of every community
where we live and work.

22

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

S&P Global Foundation

The S&P Global Foundation strives to magnify the impact 
of our philanthropy by connecting the knowledge and 
skills of our people worldwide with societal needs. It also 
supports global disaster relief efforts aiming to drive the 
development of inclusive and resilient economies. Its 
current areas of focus include diversifying technology 
and data and creating environmental resilience. 

The S&P Global Foundation is governed by a seven-member 
Board of Directors, who represent a cross section of 
skills, geographies and perspectives. We are leveraging 
our newly endowed funding model with the $200 million 
endowment from S&P Global, and taking steps to position 
the Foundation for the greatest impact in the future. 

With the support of the Foundation Board, it has updated 
its strategic focus areas to increase alignment with our 
enterprise philanthropic philosophy. Moving forward, 
the Foundation’s programs will center on diversifying 
technology and data and creating environmental resiliency. 
Through diversifying tech and data, it will support job 
training and placement opportunities for individuals 
from underrepresented communities. Its environmental 
resiliency efforts will help vulnerable communities to 
prepare for and adapt to climate realities and climate-
related disasters. Equity and justice are cornerstones 
of both focus areas, as the ultimate objective is to 
drive inclusive and resilient economies for all. 

For more information about S&P Global Foundation and 
our philanthropic efforts, please visit the Foundation 
website and read our 2022 Impact Report.

New S&P Global Foundation Grantees Advancing DEI

Trust for Public Land – Funding supported the 
New York City Community Schoolyards program to 
contribute to the opening of five schoolyards serving 
29,000 people, 99% of whom were people of color. 
Of this supported group, 77% were also from low-
income backgrounds and 650 were students with 
disabilities. By transforming asphalt playgrounds into 
green spaces, the projects improve student education 
outcomes, community health and climate resiliency.

OutRight International – Funding supported From 
the Margins to the Center – LBQ (Lesbian, Bisexual 
and Queer) Women in International Movements 
and Space. This project includes capacity-building 
trainings for new and emerging leaders, mentorship, 
project incubator grants and promotion of LBQ 
women speaking engagements to advance advocacy. 

2022 S&P Global Foundation Giving

COVID-19 Relief
$1.1M

Enterprise
$345K 

Equity & 
Inclusion
$1.6M 

Disaster Relief 
and Environment
$1.85M

Employee
Programs 
$4.7M

Inclusive
Economy 
& Skills Gap
$1.9M

S&P Global Foundation Board Demographics

1

Black

2

Asian

4

White

3

Male

4

Female

23

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

People Engagement and Volunteerism

S&P Global’s impact in the community is powered by our 
people. Through our colleague engagement programs, our 
people champion, engage and advance our commitment 
to an inclusive economy where everyone has equal 
opportunity – what we call “Building Thriving Communities.”

All colleagues are provided with 40 hours paid leave for 
volunteer service with the organization of their choice, 
team volunteer grants of $1,500, a $5,000 matching gifts 
program and a $500 grant to a nonprofit partner where 
the employee volunteers more than 25 hours annually. 

Volunteerism is a powerful way for our colleagues to 
connect with each other and give back to organizations that 
are meaningful to them. Over a given year, our colleagues 
contribute an average of 20,000 hours volunteering globally. 

Additionally, all our People Resource Groups (PRGs) are 
provided with budgets to design and implement their own 
employee volunteer initiatives. In 2022, PRGs around the  
world hosted 50 projects.

Our PRG Volunteer Projects

In 2022, more than 1,900 of our colleagues 
participated in 284 volunteer events worldwide. These 
included 414 colleagues who donated 1,809 hours 
to 50 projects as part of the efforts of the People 
Resource Groups. Some project highlights include:

United States: Skills for Cities

Together with our partner Common Impact, 
S&P Global colleagues spent the day with New 
York-based nonprofits working at the intersection 
of climate justice and racial equity. Specifically, 
our people worked with The Climate Mobilization, 
Trust for Public Land, Latin American Coalition 
and the Dan River Basin Association to tackle a 
core business challenge (e.g., in marketing, HR, 
technology, operations, program design or another 
area) to help the nonprofit advance its mission.

Hong Kong: Upcycling Workshop with 
Underrepresented Children

Our people collaborated with HandsOn Hong Kong 
Limited to enhance social integration with people from 
other cultures. Colleagues worked with young people 
to make Chinese lanterns from recycled materials and 
played games to learn more about the Mid-Autumn 
Festival as part of Chinese culture. The group then 
donated treats and educational materials to promote 
further learning and encourage racial harmony.

Singapore: IT Literacy with Daughters of Tomorrow

Ten of our people donated 20 hours to Daughters 
of Tomorrow’s IT Literacy Program. Daughters 
of Tomorrow’s mission is to facilitate livelihood 
opportunities for underprivileged women, support 
them in achieving financial independence and 
enable social mobility for their families. The IT 
Literacy Program provided training in basic computer 
skills, including Microsoft Word and Excel.

24

S&P Global DEI Report 2022Table of Contents

Our Approach

People

Customers

Communities

Moving Forward Together

Moving Forward Together

As we look to 2023 and beyond, S&P Global remains firmly committed to continuing to drive DEI for 
our people, our customers and our communities. Our newly combined company is united around 
our shared purpose and People First philosophy. In the coming year, we will advance DEI by:

 – Building on our enterprise- and division-level DEI strategies with an increased regional lens.

 – Expanding partnerships for diverse recruiting. 

 – Strengthening our culture of inclusion and belonging.

 – Further investing in DEI learning and development.

 – Evolving our DEI governance and operational practices.

Accelerating meaningful progress requires intentional actions and a high level of accountability. We 
are committed to advancing our DEI efforts and continuing to disclose and report with transparency.

This inaugural DEI Report is an important milestone for our newly combined organization, 
and we look forward to continuing to share our growth and progress.

25

S&P Global DEI Report 2022
