By Dr. Sadia Nadeem and the DEI Toolkit Team
FAST School of Management, NUCES, PakistanGENDER DEI TOOLKIT: 
BEST PRACTICES TO ENHANCE
GENDER EQUALITY IN PAKISTAN 

GENDER DEI TOOLKIT: 
BEST PRACTICES TO ENHANCE
GENDER EQUALITY IN PAKISTAN 

GENDER DEI TOOLKIT
© 2022 Management Advancement Research Centre 
FAST School of Management 
National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences 
A.K. Brohi Road, H-11/4 
Islamabad
Pakistan 
by
Sadia Nadeem 
Ayesha Siddiqa
Javeria Jamil
Neeha Khan
Razeen Fawad
Ayesha Bano
Please cite the toolkit as: Nadeem, S., Siddiqa, A., Jamil, J., Khan, N., Fawad, R., & Bano. A. (2022).
Gender DEI Toolkit: Best practices to enhance gender equality in Pakistan. Islamabad: Management
Advancement Research Centre, FAST-NUCES.

GENDER DEI TOOLKIT
SECTION 2: BEST PRACTICES UNDER GDEIB CATEGORIES EXECUTIVE SUMMARYTable of Contents
GENDER DEI TOOLS: SUMMARY OF FINDINGS
iSECTION 1: INTRODUCTION
SECTION 3: CONCLUSION Meet the team
Background 
Purpose of the toolkit
Women's representation in the workforce in Pakistan
Quaid-e-Azam's vision for the women of Pakistan
Women in Islamic history
Acknowledgements2

GDEIB: Standards for organizations around the world
Category 1: Vision, Strategy and Business Impact 
Category 2: Leadership and Accountability
Category 3: DEI Structure and Implementation
Category 4: Recruitment
Category 5: Advancement and Retention
Category 6: Job Design, Classification and Compensation 
Category 7: Work-Life Integration, Flexibility and Benefits 
Category 8: Assessment, Measurement and Research 
Category 9: DEI Communications
Category 10: DEI Learning and Development 
Category 11: Connecting DEI and Sustainability
Category 12: Community, Government Relations and Philanthropy 
Category 13: Services and Products, Marketing and Responsible Sourcing 
GENDER DEI TOOLKIT
List of Tables
Table 1: Examples of pillars of the DEI strategy
Table 2: Examples of returnship programs 
Table 3: Examples of women's leadership development programs
Table 4: Examples of benefits and flexibility offered by organizations
Table 5: Examples of maternity leave duration in organizations
Table 6: Examples of flexible working hours policies devised by organizations
Table 7: Examples of paternity leave policy of organizations
Table 8: Examples of sabbatical leave policies of organizations
Table 9: Examples of additional DEI analytics used by organizations
Table 10: Examples of internal web spaces used by organizations to promote DEI
Table 11: Examples of additional DEI training and learning initiatives
Table 12: Examples of organizations providing support for women-led businesses 
Table 13: Examples of community-based capacity development programs for women 
List of Figures
Figure 1: Tools for Vision, Strategy and Business Impact
Figure 2: Tools for Leadership and Accountability
Figure 3: Tools for DEI Structure and Implementation
Figure 4: Tools for Recruitment
Figure 5: Tools for Advancement and Retention
Figure 6: Tools for Job Design, Classification and Compensation
Figure 7: Tools for Work-Life Integration, Benefits and Flexibility
Figure 8: Tools for Assessment, Measurement and Research 
Figure 9: Examples of common measures for gender DEI analytics
Figure 10 : Tools for DEI Communications
Figure 11 : Tools for DEI Learning and Development
Figure 12 : Tools for Connecting DEI and Sustainability
Figure 13: Tools for Community, Government Relations and Philanthropy
Figure 14: Tools for Services and Products, Marketing and Responsible Sourcing
Figure 15: Other dimensions of diversity 
The Gender DEI Toolkit comprises of three main sections. Section 1
is the introductory section which provides a brief context of the
toolkit. It highlights the urgent need to increase women’s
participation in the labor force in Pakistan; such participation is
supported by the vision of the founding father, Quaid-e-Azam, and by
Islam. Section 1 also explains the key objectives of the toolkit, which
include enhancing understanding of DEI through explaining various
dimensions of DEI practices, sharing practical examples of DEI
initiatives from Pakistani organizations under these dimensions, and
hence contributing to nation-building through supporting and
empowering females in the workplace. GENDER DEI TOOLKIT
Executive Summary 
This Gender DEI Toolkit is developed on the basis of best practice examples collected from Pakistani
organizations. Its purpose is to serve as an indigenous resource to facilitate organizations in increasing the
adoption of gender DEI practices. The toolkit presents examples from various Pakistani organizations under
the 13 categories adopted from the international GDEIB 2021 standards. While examples of DEI practices
that exist in organizations across the world are available in international books and toolkits, examples from
the Pakistani context are likely to be more relevant for organizations operating in Pakistan, thereby
encouraging the wider adoption of such practices.
Finally, Section 3 concludes the toolkit. It mentions a few examples of organizational practices catering to
diversities other than gender, and recommends the need to enhance efforts in this area as well. This toolkit is
a first step undertaken by the Management Advancement Research Centre (MARC) to facilitate the wider
adoption of gender DEI practices in Pakistani organizations. As a way forward, there is an urgent need to
share best practices, engage in dialogue, and discuss commonly faced challenges in the implementation of
gender DEI practices with the aim to facilitate nation-building through supporting females in the
workplace. There is also a need to develop additional toolkits or practical guides to facilitate
implementation of practices to enhance various forms of diversities in organizations in Pakistan. Section 2 is the main section of the toolkit, and provides practical
examples of gender DEI best practices currently adopted by Pakistani
organizations. This section briefly explains the 15 categories of the
international GDEIB 2021 standards, and then divides the examples
from Pakistani organizations into 47 tools under 13 categories of
GDEIB 2021. Several of the tools have sub-categories under them; thus
the toolkit presents over 80 practical tools, with examples from 19
organizations who have generously shared examples of their best
practices. These organizations (in alphabetical order) are as follows: 
 Abacus, Bank Alfalah, British Council, Engro Polymers and
Chemicals Limited, Feroze1888, FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited,
Hashoo Group, HRSG, Interloop, Jazz, JS Bank, Mobilink
Microfinance Bank Limited, PPAF, PTCL Group, S&P Global,
Telenor, Teradata, TPL Corporation and Unilever.
SECTION  1
Meet the team
Background 
Purpose of the toolkit
Women's representation in the workforce in Pakistan
Quaid-e-azam's vision for the women of Pakistan
Women in Islamic history
AcknowledgementsGENDER DEI TOOLKIT
Introduction

I am delighted to share this Gender DEI Toolkit with organizations
across Pakistan. I conceived the idea in 2019, after acting as a jury
member for the Global DEI awards in 2018 and 2019. These awards are
a praiseworthy effort by the HR Metrics to encourage behavioral and
cultural change towards DEI in organizations in Pakistan. In the
process of reviewing the various practices from many organizations as
a jury member, I felt that sharing and learning from each other was
the best way to build a diverse and inclusive environment in
organizations and create a positive change in the society.
 
The toolkit is planned as an indigenous resource and presents tools 
 extracted by the MARC team from practices of Pakistani
organizations; best practices across the globe are available in
international books and toolkits. I hope the toolkit will serve as a
useful practical resource for organizations in Pakistan who want to set
small or ambitious targets to contribute towards nation building
through supporting females in the workplace. MEET THE TEAM
Introductory Message
Dr. Sadia Nadeem
Professor, FAST School of Management, NUCES
Director MARC
Ayesha Siddiqa Javeria Jamil Neeha Khan
Razeen Fawad Ayesha BanoDr. Sadia Nadeem


BACKGROUND
In order to utilize the skills and experience of women, organizations need to focus on gender DEI practices. A
number of Pakistani organizations understand the need to bring this change and are making conscious efforts
to foster an inclusive environment, yet most of the organizations still have a long way to go. Societal norms
and the patriarchal mindset which governs the everyday life in Pakistan also has a significant impact on
workplace gender diversity. Whether it is enhancing women representation in firms, devising women friendly
initiatives or effective policy implementation, these norms become obstacles for women's empowerment in
the country. Currently, only 20.7% of women are active in the workforce and many leave their jobs due to the
lack of accommodating policies, worsening the situation.  Therefore, a strong need is felt for creating
awareness and launching innovative policies which would act as stepping stones for organizations to promote
gender DEI. The corporate sector can play a major role in facilitating women, channelizing their abilities and
helping them become future leaders by acknowledging their responsibilities and adopting gender DEI best
practices. 
Diversity: 
Diversity means the collective
mixture of human beings with
varying characteristics, and
the identities that they have,
coexisting within an
organization.
Equity:
Equity refers to fairness. It
recognizes that each person
has different circumstances,
and allocates the exact
resources and opportunities
that are required to reach an
equal outcome.
Inclusion:
Inclusion at work reflects an
environment where all
individuals are treated fairly
and with respect, regardless
of their diversities, and are
provided equal access to
opportunities and resources
which allow them to be fully
engaged in organizational
activities, and contribute to
its success.
key step while adopting and expanding the use of DEI practices is understanding the difference between
the key terms of diversity, equity and inclusion. SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION

PURPOSE OF THE TOOLKIT
This toolkit has been developed to help organizations progressively adopt best practices that foster gender
DEI. It primarily intends to reduce gaps that hinder gender DEI by sharing best practices under the 15
categories of the GDEIB 2021 standards. It identifies multiple tools under each category that may be employed
by organizations to enhance DEI at the workplace. These tools have been derived from gender DEI best
practices implemented in organizations in Pakistan.  
To serve as a practical guide for
organizations to foster a diverse and
inclusive environment. 
To enhance understanding of diversity,
equity and inclusion, through explaining
various dimensions of DEI initiatives, as
stated in the GDEIB 2021. 
To share practical ideas to improve DEI
practices in organizations, by highlighting
the DEI best practices implemented within
organizations in Pakistan. 
To facilitate organizations in self-
assessment, by identifying the gaps that
exist between the current organizational
practices and best DEI practices.
To cater to nation building through
supporting and empowering females in the
workplace, contributing to the 5th
Sustainable Development Goal (SDG),
developed by the UN, namely gender
equality.Following are the key objectives of the toolkit: GENDER DEI TOOLKIT

* Source: Global Gender Gap Report (2022). World Economic Forum. 
https://www.weforum.org/reports/global-gender-gap-report-2022.Page 5SECTION 1: INTRODUCTION
WOMEN'S REPRESENTATION IN THE
WORKFORCE IN PAKISTAN
NEED FOR URGENT ACTION
COUNTRY STATISTICS (2021 - 2022)

8th among nine countries in South Asia,
namely Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka,
India, Iran, Maldives, Bhutan, Pakistan
and Afghanistan on the gender parity
index.
Only 23.4% of professional and technical
roles held by women. 145/146Ranked 145th out of 146 countries on the
gender parity index.
Only 20.7% women active in the labor
market. 

Only 4.5% of women are legislators, senior
officials and managers. 

"No nation can
rise to the
height of glory
unless your
women are side
by side with
you.”
 
Quaid-e-Azam  
Muhammad  Ali  Jinnah

Fatima Jinnah was the first female dentist of the
combined subcontinent. In 1919, she was accepted in
the very competitive university of Calcutta where she
studied dentistry at the Dr. R. Ahmad dental
institution. Following her graduation, she pursued
her dream of founding a dental clinic in Bombay in
1923. Although, she was extremely successful in her
career, she left dentistry to support her brother for
the cause of Pakistan.  
 
QUAID-E-AZAM'S VISION FOR THE
WOMEN OF PAKISTAN
 
Pakistan was created in the name of Islam. The Islamic history provides numerous examples of strong,
empowered and resilient women who serve as role models for women to confidently take up careers, establish
and lead businesses and work side-by-side with men in all domains of life. 
Hazrat Khadijah (RA) was a successful and leading business woman in Arabia. She inherited the abilities of her
father, who was a top merchant. She expanded her business and made it larger than all the Quraish trades put
together through her vision, intelligence and hard work. She was able to achieve all this in a male-dominating
era while also maintaining her truthful and pious image. 
Hazrat Aishah (RA)’s life serves as an excellent model for women who want to thrive in scholarship, military
leadership and politics. She had exceptional public speaking skills, had directed an army on the war field and
taught Islamic law to men and women. 
Shafa Bint Adwiya (RA) was made the in charge of administering Madinah’s marketplace during the caliphate
of Hazrat Umar ibn Khattab (RA). She was given the responsibility of ensuring that all commercial transactions
followed the law and also defended customers against deception and other nefarious activities. 

WOMEN IN ISLAMIC HISTORY:

Pakistan was created in the name of Islam. The Islamic history provides numerous examples of strong,
empowered and resilient women who serve as role models for women to confidently take up careers, establish
and lead businesses and work side-by-side with men in all domains of life.

Hazrat Khadijah (RA) was a successful and leading business woman in Arabia. She inherited the abilities of her
father, who was a top merchant. She expanded her business and made it larger than all the Quraish trades put
together through her vision, intelligence and hard work. She was able to achieve all this in a male-dominating
era while also maintaining her truthful and pious image.

Hazrat Aishah (RA)’s life serves as an excellent model for women who want to thrive in scholarship, military
leadership and politics. She had exceptional public speaking skills, had directed an army on the war field and
taught Islamic law to men and women.

Shafa Bint Adwiya (RA) was made the in charge of administering Madinah’s marketplace during the caliphate
of Hazrat Umar ibn Khattab (RA). She was given the responsibility of ensuring that all commercial transactions
followed the law and also defended customers against deception and other nefarious activities.

GDEIB: STANDARDS FOR ORGANIZATIONS
AROUND THE WORLD
The design of Section 2 of this toolkit is based on the 15 categories of the Global Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion Benchmarks (GDEIB) 2021, © Molefi, O'Mara and Richter. The GDEIB 2021 standards are published
by the Centre for Global Inclusion with the support and input of 112 expert panelists from around the world,
and are used in this toolkit with permission. These 15 categories, divided into four groups, are a resource for
planning actions to enhance DEI initiatives and promoting a culture of inclusivity and equity in organizations.
An overview of the four groups and 15 categories, as per the GDEIB 2021 standards, is provided below. 
THE FOUNDATION
GROUP: 
DRIVE THE STRATEGY
1. Vision: Develop a strong rationale for DEI vision, mission, and strategy and align it to
organizational goals.
2. Leadership: Hold leaders accountable for implementing the organization’s DEI vision,
setting goals, achieving results, and being role models.
3. Structure: Provide visible, dedicated support and structure with authority and budget
to effectively implement DEI.
THE INTERNAL GROUP:
ATTRACT AND RETAIN
PEOPLE
4. Recruitment: Ensure that attraction, sourcing, and recruitment is done through the
lens of DEI. 
5. Advancement: Ensure that DEI is integrated into professional development,
performance management, advancement, and retention.
6. Compensation: Ensure that job design and classification are evaluated for bias and
that compensation is equitable across key dimensions of diversity.
7. Benefits & flexibility: Achieve work-life integration, flexibility, and equitable benefits.
Flexible work options are widely available and accessible.
THE BRIDGING GROUP: 
ALIGN AND CONNECT
8. Assessment: Ensure that all assessments, measurement, and research guide DEI
decisions.
9. Communication: Make communication clear, simple to understand and a crucial force
in achieving the organization’s DEI goals.
10. Learning: Educate all to achieve the level of DEI competence and confidence needed
to create a diverse, equitable, and inclusive organization.
11. Sustainability: Connect the organization’s DEI and sustainability initiatives to
increase the effectiveness of both.
THE EXTERNAL GROUP:
LISTEN TO AND SERVE
THE SOCIETY
12. Community: Be proactive in working with community, public and private
partnerships, government, society at large, and through philanthropy. 
13. Services & Products: Embed DEI in services and products development to serve
diverse customers and clients. 
14. Marketing: Integrate DEI into marketing and customer service. 
15. Responsible Sourcing: Practice responsible and ethical sourcing. Develop and nurture
underrepresented suppliers.



A DEI strategy 
Organizational
values that
promote DEIA DEI mottoVISION, STRATEGY AND BUSINESS IMPACTGENDER DEI TOOLKIT


Hashoo Foundation: DEI Vision statement 
An ethical, equitable, inclusive society in which people live with dignity and have power over their own
lives.
Jazz: DEI Mission statement
To improve the lives and livelihoods of women in Pakistan through technology.
PTCL Group: DEI Vision statement
To be recognized as an inclusive workplace where diversity is appreciated and is considered imperative for
enhanced business performance.
PTCL Group: DEI Mission statement
To foster a culture of diversity, inclusion, and belonging through our systems, processes, and human
interactions.
Teradata: DEI Vision statement
We are committed to an inclusive workplace culture where everyone feels welcome, respected, support ed,
valued and can be themselves.
Telenor: DEI Vision statement 
Winning together by valuing our differences, leading to a High-Performance Culture. 

Organizations that are trying to improve DEI planning and implementation prepare strategic plans in order to enhance their
DEI efforts and materialize their long-term vision regarding DEI. Some organizations have developed specific strategies while
others have general roadmaps laid out, to create a culture that consistently promotes DEI; it is a part of their overall strategy
and is integrated in their organizational culture.

Unilever aims to eliminate any kind of bias or
discrimination in their policies and practices.

Teradata acknowledges the attainment of DEI
as a challenge. They believe that it is a gap that
needs to be addressed for which they create a
sense of acknowledgement across the
organizations. This ensures that each individual
demonstrates ownership to promote equality
and puts in their best effort to eradicate
discrimination.
 
MMBL has a two-fold strategy of female
empowerment. The first wing called Women
Inspirational Network (WIN) program focuses
on women empowerment. It encourages and
facilitates female customers or borrowers,
belonging from rural or urban areas, to become
entrepreneurs by training and digitally
equipping them. The other wing is called Mobi
Circle, which focuses on internal women
empowerment by developing females as
emerging leaders and empowering them. 

The DEI strategy of EPCL is divided into the
external and internal component. The external
component of the DEI strategy of the
organization looks for ways to collaborate with
the industry to increase the number of females
in STEM education. The internal focus lies on
bringing in the right talent, developing their
capability, and ensuring their retention.

British Council's strategy in 2021 revolves
around three areas, i.e., business case, moral
case, and legal case. This strategy has three
objectives; an inclusive organizational culture,
developing capability and leaders, and
measuring performance, impact and legal
compliance.

JS Bank formulated a three-year D&I strategy
in 2021. The first year focused on introducing
initiatives for enhancing women
representation, progression and developing
family friendly policies and inclusion policies
and efforts for people with disabilities. The
next two years focus on enhancing
interventions for these groups, along with
introducing interventions for other diversities. 

At S&P Global, DEI is central to who they are
and is vital to their success. DEI is rooted in
three key areas; people, customers, and
community. The company integrates DEI into
everything they do, starting with their
workforce and workplace, and extending far
beyond company walls, into the marketplace
and local communities. 
Category 1: vision, strategy and business impact 

AbacusBecome an employer of choice by attracting and retaining top talent
Develop a diverse pool of talent
Secure an inclusive work culture
Leverage D&I in the marketplace in partnership with customers, suppliers and communities

Bank Alfalah
Introducing D&I analytics 
Taking a conscious approach to recruitment
Focusing on learning and development
Catering to employee retention and engagement needs
Jazz
People: Covering talent, leadership and culture
Business: Covering content, products and partners
Community: Covering public image, advocacy and service
TelenorFemale talent development 
Female retention
Female inclusion
Several participating organizations have devised DEI strategic plans around three to four main pillars, centered around
different aspects of gender DEI. Examples of these are listed in Table 1. 
Organizational values that promote DEI
Organizations aim at creating an ideal workplace environment and culture where employees feel included and rewarded
for their efforts. Table 1: Examples of pillars of the DEI strategy
Unilever's philosophy is reflected in everything the company does. For instance, D&I has ownership from the
top management, the company has a clearly spelled out purpose for pursuing D&I, a proper structure for
enablement, channels for articulating and communicating its D&I philosophy and its essentiality across the
organization.
EPCL believes in motivating, developing, and rewarding employees as a means of achieving success, respecting
its employees’ rights, and encouraging freedom of expression and open dialogue.
Abacus’s core values concentrate on attracting the best talent and maintaining a diverse and inclusive
organizational environment. Gender diversity is catered to by engaging women, not only in the lower tiers but
in the higher positions as well, and sustaining a female-friendly workplace culture. 

Feroze1888's value system is defined as “PROSPER”. P stands for People Development, R for Respect, O for
Ownership and Accountability, S for Success Will, P for Proactive, E for Excellence in work, and R for
Reliability. Every Feroze1888 employee has had trainings on PROSPER and are encouraged to know it by
heart. These values are a reflection of their organization's aspiration for ensuring an equitable and inclusive
workplace.
Few organizations have formed DEI mottos implying the importance of synergy that is created when diverse groups of
people collaborate and work together. These mottos serve as a declaration of the organization's commitment to furthering
DEI 
Hashoo Group:
Together we make a difference
Telenor:
Creating together services and solutions that include different perspectives.
 

Role modelling
by male leaders
LEADERSHIP AND ACCOUNTABILITYGENDER DEI TOOLKIT
CATEGORY 2: 
Leadership's
commitment to DEI
Executives'
involvement in
DEI
Industry Examples of Tools for Leadership and Accountability
Leaders of the organizations who have successfully implemented DEI practices in Pakistan are committed to a very proactive
approach with regards to gender DEI within their organizations. This is evident from the statistics presenting enhanced
female representation in various organizations.
Under the committed leadership
of former CEO of PPAF,
women's representation
significantly increased from 19
percent to 33 percent from 2011 to
2021. 
FINCA Microfinance Bank
Limited has also improved its
diversity ratio from 17% to 24.7%
through the dedicated efforts of
its leadership
The board of directors at TPL Corp set
fourth an agenda in 2022 to have a
more diverse workforce. It is integral
to TPL Corp that the top management
feels strongly about having a diverse
workforce, encouraging the rest of the
team and senior management to
inculcate and adopt practices that have
a rippling effect across the entire
organization.

Executives' involvement in DEI 
Members of the board of directors and other senior executives of different organizations are actively engaged in the promotion
of DEI.  
EPCL's executives including its members, CEO, board, and the entire management committee is truly invested
and committed to increasing female representation in the organization. This commitment from the top allows
the support needed to extend DEI initiatives into the organization. 

Feroze1888's board of directors adopt practical steps to promote a diverse and inclusive environment within 
the organization. They keep track of real-time progress through analyzing stats and gauging where they
currently are and where they want to be headed by setting yearly targets in the quarterly meetings. 
Abacus, which is led by a female CEO, Ms. Fatima Asad-Said, has a clear DEI vision that brought the company
towards the progressive change of diversity and inclusivity. The departments of corporate strategy and finance,
corporate human resources, corporate communication and branding, and D&I are also being led by female
leaders. The company has appointed senior representatives in all practice areas, who act as visible champions of
diversity. 

The Deputy Chairman of the Hashoo Group, Mr. Murtaza Hashwani, has taken a very vocal and a deliberate
stand with regards to gender DEI in terms of recruitment of employees, their pay packages, engagement and
career growth levels. The senior management of Hashoo Group also displays great commitment towards
enhancing gender inclusivity in male dominant departments such as the finance department, by encouraging
and training females to work in these departments where female strength is generally low. 

At Unilever, each function is gauged through the lens of diversity. Male to female ratio of every department is
presented to the CEO, the management committee, and the South Asia cluster on a monthly basis. The top
management analyzes these numbers and plans accordingly.
Executives at Teradata take a DEI pledge, which inculcates the value system of Teradata and signifies the
commitment that the senior management has towards DEI.
Our Pledge to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
We will encourage all to speak up when they experience or witness intolerance, mistreatment, incivility, or
conscious/unconscious bias in action.
We will ask ourselves, “Do our actions and words reflect the values of inclusion?”
We will initiate meaningful, complex and sometimes difficult conversations with colleagues. 
We commit to ensuring an inclusive environment for all. We will see different perspectives and respect points of view and
communications styles that are different from our own. 
We will ensure our actions and words reflect the value of and our commitment to inclusion. 
We will encourage all to move outside zones to learn about the experiences and perspectives of others. 
Actively contribute to a culture in which racism is not accepted. 
Acknowledge and confront incidents of racial discrimination and provide support for the employees who are negatively
affected. 
Engage in ongoing opportunities to learn about the importance of diversity, equity and inclusion, including our collective
responsibility with respect to anti-racist behaviors and processes.Our Pledge to Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
Teradata is an Anti-Racist Company 
In addition, we are committed to be an anti-racist company in which we identify and extinguish any system, value, behavior or
organizational process but perpetuates systemic racism. To do this, we commit to:
By committing to these behaviors and actions, together, we will create an environment 
where employees feel safe and free from discrimination and racism.

Role modelling by male leaders
Engagement and support from men is critical for achieving true diversity and inclusion in the workplace. Male leaders at
all levels need to actively support gender DEI and role model their ideals. A vivid example of this is male leaders becoming
change agents and taking action to support, empower and help women achieve their goals. 
Leadership's commitment in several of the participating organizations is reflected through the CEO's becoming Male
Champions of Change (MCC). Members of MCC meet regularly in small action-orientated groups centered around a
collective work plan, where they learn from and challenge their peers. As a coalition, they work collectively to publicly
share their learnings and their progress. As individuals, change champions implement change within their organizations
and publicly advocate for gender equality. Examples of organizations whose CEOs have served as a MCC include:
Founder of HRSG, late Mr. Azhar's focus had been directed towards ensuring a work environment
which was transparent, free of negativity, and allowed open communication and feedback. These values
provided the foundation for DEI initiatives within the organization.
The CEO of Jazz, Mr. Aamir Ibrahim's efforts have greatly contributed to the open and inclusive
culture of Jazz, initiatives for gender-equality and enhancing women empowerment. He is an
embodiment of inclusivity. 
Telenor’s CEO, Mr. Irfan Wahab, took a panel pledge to promote inclusion in the organization. The
pledge promised the presence of female employees in every internal and external panel talk, ultimately
giving them a meaningful voice in the organization. In an exciting way to spread the message, he
handed over his position as CEO to a female student for a single day. This symbolic takeover
highlighted Telenor's commitment towards increased female participation in the workforce. 

Industry Examples of Tools for DEI Structure and Implementation
Budget and resources need to be allocated for the successful implementation of the DEI strategy and initiatives. In this
regard, a few organizations have an exclusive annual budget put aside for DEI activities. For example, organizations that
have a separate DEI department or a gender committee, allocate at least some budget exclusively to DEI. All organizations
have some budget embedded within other budget heads. For example, embedded budget is often used for DEI training,
various employee engagement activities, benefits offered to women etc., in most organizations. Overall, the examples
illustrate that sufficient budget needs to be allocated to the DEI structural body and its professional staff in order to
implement the planned strategy and achieve the DEI targets. Budget and resource allocation to DEIA suitable DEI structure

At British Council, there is a diversity unit that
involves DEI policy makers from the UK. The
organization, thus adopts a centralized approach
to feed the DEI policies and initiatives that are
implemented around the world, within the
organization locally. In Pakistan, there is a
working group under the country lead. This
working group consists of different staff members
from different teams, who are engaged on
voluntary basis, and they have 5% of their role
dedicated to DEI.At EPCL, D&I efforts fall under the
Talent and Culture function. In each of
the company’s subsidiaries a different
model exists but what they all have in
common is that, a General Manager,
Senior Manager and a specific employee
look after D&I.
FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited has a
management subcommittee on diversity,
inclusion and belonging (DIB), consisting of a
leadership forum. The members of the forum
include two female HODs, two females and
two males from senior management, and one
female from middle management. The bank
has separate active committees that deal with
issues related to sexual harassment, workplace
harassment and workplace bullying.Interloop’s Equality and Diversity Committee
(EDC) incorporates both females and males
from the management. The committee's
mandate includes D&I target setting, trainings
on D&I and handling cases of discrimination
or harassment.
The Board Committees have been
reconstituted at Abacus keeping in
mind the D&I element, and its
objectives are to provide executive
leadership and direction to the D&I
initiatives. To judge the successful
implementation of objectives, the
council typically meets on quarterly
basis.Bank Alfalah's D&I council, created in the year
2021, constitutes of twelve people out of which six
are group heads and the rest are representatives
from other levels in the organization. This top-
driven group head level council meets once a
month to discuss ideas, track the implementation
of the D&I agenda, and plan and finalize the way
forward. It also allocates a specific budget with
some cushion for D&I initiatives every year. In
addition to this, there is a network of HR
business partners and an employee relations team
that serve as diversity champions and play their
part in keeping the work environment fair, equal,
and inclusive for everyone.

Teradata has a cohesive organizational structure
with a global board. There are regional committees
with voluntary representatives responsible for
ensuring implementation of all plans within that
particular region. At present there is a
representative of DEI initiatives in Pakistan who is
a part of the regional forum, who ensures that
activities done outside of Pakistan are reflected
within the country as well.Unilever has a group of forty people
from different functions across all
levels, who work in the form of cross-
functional teams. These teams are
responsible for different areas of D&I
such as gender, transgender and
PWDs. They share ideas with the
management committee and the CEO
for approval, so that they can proceed
with executing the plan in the years
ahead.At PTCL Group a department of DEI
has been formed which is actively
involved in coming up with solutions
to increase the representation of
women within the organization, and
fostering a culture of inclusivity with
the help of a strategy formulated under
the guidance of GDEIB benchmark
standards. The responsibility of DEI
comes under group head Culture,
Transformation and Change
Management, and Assistant Manager
(D&I).PPAF’s gender committee has been allocated a seperate
budget to take DEI initiatives. The committee ensures
active gender representation and participation within its
operations. The purpose of this committee is to support
PPAF in mainstreaming the concept and practice of
gender equity in all its internal and external work. It also
aims to assist PPAF’s stakeholders in meeting their
obligations in terms of what is set out in the results
framework to achieve Millennium Development Goals
(MDG) of gender equality. 
Page 21JS Bank is currently in the process of
formulating a D&I council that will
consist of people from the upper
management tier, including the CEO,
CHRO and COO. The council will
sponsor different programs advocating
gender diversity.  Prominent DEI roles exist at the leadership level at 
 Jazz, demonstrating how it is one of the key priorities
for the company. Cross functional teams are formed,
in which employees from different departments such
as Sustainability, Commercial, Strategy and People
Organization are brought together, and given specific
DEI related responsibilities and targets.  

CATEGORY 4: RECRUITMENT
Pursuing the agenda of DEI, organizations that have embraced DEI in Pakistan have carried out many initiatives to
incorporate DEI  in their recruitment system. These initiatives broadly fall under four categories. These include gender neutral
job advertisements, gender balanced interview panels, equitable recruitment process and returnship programs. Detailed
examples are presented below. 

Gender neutral job advertisements
Organizations make an effort to ensure that the language used in job-ads remain gender neutral and free of any biases. This
ensures a diverse pool of candidates. They try to project an overall supportive culture to attract and retain female talent.
Feroze1888 and PPAF are examples of such organizations which ensure that their job advertisements are free of specific
gender focus and have gender-inclusive language.

Gender balanced interview panels
Another important aspect which facilitates to make the recruitment and selection process unbiased, is having gender balanced
interview panels. For example, FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited has a policy to have at least one female in the panel of
interviewers. This incorporates female opinion and removes biases. Hashoo Group also ensures the presence of females in
interview panels with the aim of making the interview process more inclusive and encouraging for the interviewees. MMBL
maintains neutrality in promotion interviews by ensuring female presence in panels along with the mandatory presence of their
female CHRO.
Equitable recruitment process
Many organizations in Pakistan are rigorously trying to maintain an equitable recruitment process. Examples of such
efforts include targets for female applicants per job posting, targets for short-listing females, avoid stereotyping while
short-listing, aggressively headhunting for females, pre-employment training for females, targeted recruitment drives for
females and monitoring gender ratios at all stages of recruitment. Some industry examples are presented.

Abacus is fully committed to the
principle of equal opportunity and adopt
non-discriminatory hiring practices. The
company ensures one to two ratio when
shortlisting resumes and for this purpose
it aggressively headhunts to find talented
and skillful females who can proficiently
meet the technical requirements of the
job. Since January 2021, Abacus has
welcomed over 300 employees and
consciously boarded more females on
senior level positions for business-critical
roles to ensure the inclusion of females in
strategic decision making.
FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited has a
program called “Trainee Credit Officer”
(TCO) which hires 25 females in each
batch as trainee credit officers and
provides them a three-month stipend
along with on-the-job training. The
training involves fieldwork, mentorship,
and disbursement and mobilization
trainings. A female senior credit officer is
allocated to each trainee through a buddy
system to enhance their productivity.
After completion of three months, those
who fulfill the qualification criteria are
given permanent positions as assistant
credit officers. The company also strictly
follows its policy of having females in the
pool of shortlisted candidates in every
hiring round. 
PPAF makes conscious efforts to shortlist
candidates from diverse backgrounds,
especially females. Females are not
discriminated on the basis of stereotypes
related to their gender, and are
encouraged to apply for technical
positions. Equity is ensured in terms of
providing them equal opportunity as
males till shortlisting. After that it is
entirely based on merit.Telenor is very actively involved in
creating a gender balance in the
workplace. It creates separate talent pools
for females, and ensures that the company
is doing 50% talent pooling of females in
its recruitment strategy. The company is
constantly in touch with headhunters
across Pakistan who are on the lookout
for female talent. This has negated the
concept of “pink roles” and has helped in
appointing females on tough roles in
remote locations.
S&P Global makes intentional investments
in identifying and recruiting diverse talent,
such as partnering with relevant external
organizations and conducting targeted
sessions for women in universities. S&P
Global’s People Movement team in
Islamabad has been able to increase the
percentage of females hired to 33% in 2022,
and has increased female representation in
its Pakistan's workforce to 26.6%. 
At Unilever each function has an
internal target guiding the percentage of
hiring that should be gender balanced.
Similarly, the company’s flagship
programs like management trainee
programmes, "Unilever Leadership
Internship Programme" (ULIP),
"Unilever Future Leaders Programme"
(UFLP) and supply chain trainee
programs are all designed to enhance
female representation. TPL Corp provides an equal chance to
both genders to be hired; the company
has made it mandatory for recruiters to
try their best to shortlist as high as 50
percent females in the organization.

TPL Corp as a company encourages
women (who have taken career breaks
for whatever reasons) to rejoin office
and restart their careers, be it 1 year or
20 years.Teradata monitors the female to male
percentage religiously and ensures that
the hiring manager does not
discriminate on the basis of gender
when a CV is received and analyzed. In a conscious effort to build PTCL
Group’s future female leadership, the
organization inducted 30% women
through the management trainee program
known as “Summit”. The talent
acquisition teams are encouraged to share
analytics on the kind of candidates they
are attracting for each category and
whether there is a need to explore other
forums for advertising jobs. 

Jazz has committed to gender balance
improvement and has worked on removing
any systemic biases from the entire
recruitment process with a target of
balanced gender ratio at all stages of the
recruitment process.MMBL recommends all its managers to
give priority to female hiring. When a male
and a female candidate are at par in terms
of the required skill set, the company
prefers to hire the female candidate.Hashoo Group has developed a merit-based
quota system to increase representation of
females in departments where there is
minimal female representation. If the
desired female candidate  lacks certain
qualifications or experience she is provided
coaching and mentoring. This ensures that
the essential competencies and mandatory
requirements are not compromised.CATEGORY 4: RECRUITMENT

Returnship programs 
Several organizations in Pakistan have introduced returnship programs for females who have taken a career break and
want to resume their career. Companies tap in the female talent and provide ease of access needed to return to the
corporate sector. These programs are aimed to not only offer skills - uplift, but indulge in providing a meaningful and real
role to women, while offering emotional and social support alongside as well. Examples of such returnship programs are
represented below
Name of organization Program name
Bank Alfalah is Welcome Back
EPCL is Break Kay Baad (After the break)
Jazz is She’s Back
JS Bank is Reboot Program
Telenor is  Naya Aghaaz (New beginnings)
Unilever is Career by Choice
 
Industry Examples of Tools for Advancement and Retention
The true essence of gender DEI is observed when women are provided equal opportunities to climb up the organization
ladder. Organizations that have DEI best practices have designed and implemented action plans in order to maintain gender
parity in advancement and retention, After analyzing the data, we can see that majority of the practices under this category
fall under three broad themes; equitable promotion process, women's leadership development programs and confidence
building initiatives for women. Detailed examples of these categories are discussed below.


Equitable promotion process
Organizations that consider female representation across hierarchical levels as important, integrate initiatives in the talent
review process to ensure that females are developed for leadership positions and encouraged to apply for promotions.
Examples under this theme can be divided into two sub-themes; equitable succession planning and equitable talent reviews.

In light of its aim to retain a strong talent pool of
female employees, HRSG has reached 33% female
representation at their senior leadership level, and is
now focusing on promoting females to C level for
further advancement. 
Unilever has set an ambitious target to become gender
balanced for mid-level management and above. The company
has had two female CEOs in the past 10 years along with a very
gender diverse management committee.
At PPAF, if a position is held by a man for a
long time, they make an effort to identify
competent females from within the
organization or outside to disrupt the chain
and change the narrative. 
FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited makes an
effort to find competent females whenever
there is an internal job posting, to ensure
career growth of females in the organization. 
TPL Corp gives special attention to women leadership by promoting
females within the organization and enabling them to reach
leadership roles. On April 01, 2022, the company promoted their
female Head of Learning and Development to the position of "Chief
Learning Officer" within the 8 months of joining.
MMBL has a talent review and
development plan which is
focused on uplifting female
employees and making them
actively involved in leadership
roles.

Women's leadership
development programs
Organizations that are committed to gender DEI offer women's leadership development programs that aim to equip potential
future leaders with the required skills and abilities. These programs facilitate women in qualifying for senior positions and help
them in becoming successful leaders. Table 3 provides examples of women leadership development programs in various
organizations. 

Abacus 
Next Gen Female Leaders: A program aimed at developing first time managers. It focuses on developing high
potential females who are first time managers. The program facilitates top females to reach leadership positions
where they can make decisions and have autonomy.

Bank Alfalah
She Lead: Women leadership development program. The program focuses on building a personal brand, self-
promotion for women, forming effective and strategic connections, overcoming self-limiting beliefs and career
development planning.

EPCL
Breaking the Glass Ceiling: Leadership development program for females. This program, is based on a one-year
leadership journey for females with group coaching and one-on-one coaching sessions conducted every month.
Each month, a different module is covered, for example communication skills, negotiation skills, presentation
skills, and so on, thereby making women proficient in multiple competencies. It has resulted in an 11 percent
increase in the performance ratings of females.

Jazz
Jazz has launched various talent development programs female's at all career stages. Examples include, “Phoenix",
which focuses on essential skills for leadership potential. "Maximize", which is to maximize the technical skills in
females, and "Empower" which is a leadership development program for females. Each of these programs is
designed specifically for women to help them progress in their career ensuring they can easily climb the corporate
ladder.

Telenor
Telenor has launched a female leadership program aiming to uplift senior female leaders and to encourage leaders
to manage diversity within their teams.

S&P Global
I’m Woman: Leadership development program for females. I’m Woman was a 3-month program focused on the
personal and professional development of 26 females from S&P Global Pakistan. The key theme of this program
was to expand the perspectives of women who were interested in leadership positions and to facilitate their
development through the lens of highly accomplished female executives who had been able to attain work-life
integration. The program consisted of a series of round table discussions with senior female leaders at S&P Global,
and the formation of mentor-mentee relationships which could continue beyond the 3 month program, by mutual
consent between the mentor and mentee.

Confidence building initiatives for women
Organizations that have embraced DEI are deeply committed to providing initiatives that build confidence of women. These
initiatives  can be divided into three types; DEI networks and clubs, mentorship and sponsorship for women, and support to
overcome psychological barriers.

Unilever carries out a connect and share circle
called “She for She”, in which a senior person from
the top 50 leaders interacts with 25 to 30 female
employees. These circles allow females to share
their problems, attain solutions and listen to
inspiring experiences from one another. Initially
these circles were limited to particular functions,
but now the company plans to conduct them with
cross-functional groups.

PTCL Group launched its Pink Club in 2017; it undertakes
initiatives revolving around the professional development
and well-being of females across the company. Pink
ambassadors appointed at all regional and zonal offices act
as representatives of the cause for DEI-related women-
centric initiatives. The team uses Workplace to run
campaigns, for example Mehfil-e-Milad, Polycystic Ovarian
Syndrome (PCOS) Awareness Campaign, and Breast
Cancer Awareness Campaign. Each year the club celebrates
International Women’s Day with great vigor in line with the
global campaign by United Nations. In 2021 male employees
at the PTCL Group pledged their support for the cause
through the campaign “Strong Men Wear Pink”.

Telenor sets up focus groups called
"Listen and Learn" for the female
employees with the CEO to listen
to their ideas. Telenor has also
established female forums
“EmpowHer Network” that is
dedicated to female succession
planning and is a tool to motivate
and support development of
female talent. 

CATEGORY 6: JOB DESIGN, CLASSIFICATION AND COMPENSATION 
To retain and strengthen a talented pool of employees, organizations that have DEI best practices are taking steps to ensure
parity in pay and offering flexible job design. Industry examples under these two categories are presented below.

Gender pay parity
Organizations such as EPCL, Feroze1888, JS Bank, PPAF and Abacus, put in effort to have compensation packages that are
unbiased and free of discrimination. These organizations are frequently involved in conducting market research and health-
checks to ensure that market competitive compensation is given to their employees. 
Telenor is directly and actively monitoring pay parity. Telenor conducted a pay parity exercise in 2020 and has made it a
policy to provide equal salaries for equal work, regardless of gender. Telenor Group publishes gender pay analysis annually to
exhibit its commitment to this area. It has an annual salary review processes in place, whereby, salaries of both male and
female employees are reviewed to ensure that no group is disadvantaged. 

Flexible job design
Almost all organizations that have DEI best practices are involved in providing a flexible job design to their employees,
bearing in mind the responsibilities of an average Pakistani woman.  Organizations provide flexible work programs which
enable women to effectively balance their work alongside their care obligations at home.

CATEGORY 7: WORK-LIFE INTEGRATION, FLEXIBILITY AND BENEFITS 
 
Additional DEI benefits  Maternity leave Flexible working hours
Transport
facility/allowance
for womenPaternity leave
Daycare or
daycare/nanny
allowanceSabbatical leave
Iddat leave
Secure on-site residences or guest houses
Enclosure for niqab wearing women during lunch 
Scooty loans for women 
Adoption leave
New mothers’ adjustment program
Priority parking for women 

Industry Examples of Tools for Work-Life Integration: 
Organizations that have embraced DEI have introduced various benefits and flexible working arrangements for the
sound work-life integration for female employees. These efforts facilitate women in pursing their careers while also
catering to their personal needs. The most common benefits are maternity leave, flexible working hours, transport
facility/allowance for women, paternity leave, daycare or daycare/nanny allowance and sabbatical leave. The less
commonly offered additional DEI benefits include iddat leave, secure on-site residence or guest houses, enclosure for
niqab wearing women during lunch, scotty loan for women, adoption leave, new mother's adjustment program and
priority parking for women. These have been represented in Table 4. 

Table 4: Examples of benefits and flexibility offered by organizations* 
Organization name  Duration of maternity leave  
Bank Alfalah  6 months (full-paid)
EPCL  6 months (full-paid)
FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited  3 months (full-paid) + an extendable leave of 2 months or work from home
Jazz  6 months (full-paid for full term)
      4 weeks (full paid in case of early miscarriage)
      6 months (full paid in case of miscarriage in third trimester or still birth)
MMBL  3 months (full-paid) + an extendable facilitation of up to 3 months with work from home two days a week (full-paid)

Maternity leave 
Maternity leave applies to expectant or new mothers who require time off for pregnancy, childbirth and childcare. The
maternity leave comprises of statutory or extended leave depending upon the organization. Organizations that are
supporting gender DEI are providing fully paid, partially paid, or unpaid maternity leave of varying time period
exceeding legislative requirements. Table 5 has the details about some organizations that are offering generous maternity
leaves compared to other organizations in Pakistan. 
Table 5: Examples of maternity leave duration in organizations
PTCL Group 3 months
Teradata 6 months (full-paid) + an extended unpaid leave of 12 months  
Unilever 6 months (full-paid)
    
Flexible working hours
Organizations are offering various flexible working arrangements and policies to work from home to help female employees
maintain their work-life balance; some examples are presented in Table 6. 
Table 6: Examples of flexible working hours policies devised by organizations
 
Abacus
Abacus anywhere: This policy encourages remote working so that female
employees feel safe, supported and productive, especially after the outbreak of
the pandemic. While it encourages remote working for every staff member, it
specifically provides flexible working hours to women at different life stages.
They are allowed to work remotely, or work from home.
 
FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited
Work from home: FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited has a policy offering 4
days’ work from home every month for females.

JS Bank
Flexible working arrangements: JS Bank provides flexible
working hours in the form of work from home, and reduced hours, depending
on the needs of women, especially working mothers.   
  
MMBL
Flexi working hours: This policy has been devised by MMBL to allow working
mothers to work from home. A working mother can opt for one day as a flex day
in the week. A working mother can arrive late and leave early as long as her
productivity is not affected.
  
Telenor
Both males and females are allowed to work from home on any two days of their
choice every week. Female employees, having children less than or equal to four
years of age, are allowed to work home the entire week.

Unilever
Everyone at Unilever, except factory production workers, are permitted to work
anytime, anywhere, as long as they meet business expectations.Flexible working hours

Transport facilities/allowance for women 
Transport facility or allowance is provided by several organizations so that female employees can commute easily from
home to work. This benefit may be in the form of car pick and drop services, female specific buses, travel allowance to
compensate for non-availability of pick and drop services, and discounts on Careem or Uber rides. Many organizations are
offering such facilities/ allowances, as presented in Table 4.  

Paternity leave 
Paternity leave is a period of absence from work granted to a father after or shortly before the birth of his child. Organizations
are offering paternity leaves to male employees so that they can spend time with their newly born child. Different companies
have different policies for the paternity leaves as presented in Table 7. One organization, S&P Global, offers parental leave as
well. Table 7: Examples of paternity leave policy of organizations
 
Organization Terms of paternity leave policy
Bank Alfalah 7 days
EPCL 15 days of leave which can be used in the first three months of the
child’s birth. 
Hashoo Foundation 3 days
Jazz 30 days to support the family whether it is a healthy pregnancy, a complex one, or if the mother has lost the child.
PTCL Group 5 consecutive days
S&P Global 26 weeks of paid parental leave for all parents, regardless of gender.
Unilever 3 weeks

Daycare or daycare/nanny allowance
Daycare is a facility offered by organizations to support working parents. An in-house daycare facility enables working
mothers to focus better on their work responsibilities without feeling the guilt of neglecting their child. Examples of
organizations that offer in-house daycare at their head office or larger work sites include Abacus, PPAF, PTCL Group
etc. An alternative to on-site daycare is daycare allowance that provides monetary assistance to aid working parents to
admit their child in a daycare outside the organization’s premises such as by Jazz. Another option is to provide nanny
allowance so that working parents may hire a nanny who would look after the child at home. Examples of organizations
that provide daycare/nanny allowance include Bank Alfalah, HRSG, MMBL etc.  

Sabbatical leave
A sabbatical is a lengthy, intentional break from one's career. Organizations are also offering sabbatical leave as a means
to provide flexibility to their female employees; a few examples are presented in Table 8. 
Table 8: Examples of sabbatical leave policies of organizations
Organization Name 
Sabbatical Policy

EPCL
Off-track Policy: If a female employee wants to go on a sabbatical
due to personal reasons, she is granted a leave of up to 2 years after the
management committee’s approval. Upon her return, the organization
accommodates her either in the same department, or elsewhere, as per
the availability of positions at that time.
  
Telenor
Female employees can take a sabbatical for a period of 6 months to 2
years, based on "family/personal needs."

Additional DEI benefits  
Iddat leave is a leave given to a female employees in case of the death of her husband. Many organizations
e.g. Bank Alfalah, FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited, Hashoo Groups, Interloop, MMBL and PTCL
Group offer Iddat leave.  
On-site residences or guest houses are provided to females when they are travelling for business proposes so
that they have a safe place to stay and to make their stay more convenient. Table 4 presents examples of
organizations that provide this benefit.   
Separate enclosures for niqab wearing women during lunch have been created by organizations within the
workplace for women who wear niqab to provide them privacy and comfort while having lunch. MMBL and
Teradata are examples of two organizations offering this benefit.  
Scooty loan is a short- to medium-term loan, specifically for female employees, to purchase a scooty or
motorbike in order to make their commute easier. Bank Alfalah, FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited and
MMBL are examples of organizations offering this benefit. 
Adoption leaves are leaves that are provided to working mothers/parents after adoption so that they have
the time and space to adjust and adopt the responsibilities that come with motherhood. Jazz, S&P Global
and TPL Corp. are examples of organizations offering adoption leave. 
New mother’s adjustment program provides coaching to women who join the workforce after becoming
mothers, to teach them ways to maintain a healthy work-life balance. Bank Alfalah and Jazz are examples of
organizations providing this benefit. 
Priority parking allocates specific areas for women, irrespective of their position, to park their vehicles
within the organization’s premises or close to the premises, thus providing them a safe and secure parking
area. PTCL Group and TPL Corp. are examples of organizations offering this benefit. 
An additional noteworthy initiative "Momentum" launched by Jazz to facilitate female employees.
Momentum provides a complete support system, referred to as “Momentum”, for moms who are returning
from any kind of maternity leave. It is a six-month adjustment program in which the access of these women
is eased out gradually, so they are not expected to return and start working immediately. After the
maternity leave, all women are given 3 months  work from home with reduced hours and reduced workload.
At the end of the first three months, post-partum women and their line mangers can agree on flexible
working arrangements (there are several choices available) for the next three months. Momentum also
includes two support groups, one for new moms and one for new fathers, which is supported by a qualified
psychologist who provides useful counseling and coaching in regular support group meetings. Grief
counseling for grieving parents, and post-partum depression support is also provided through a qualified
mental health practitioner.CATEGORY 7: WORK-LIFE INTEGRATION, FLEXIBILITY AND BENEFITS 


CATEGORY 8: ASSESSMENT, MEASUREMENT AND RESEARCH 
Organizations that are implementing best practices are actively involved in assessing the effectiveness of their DEI initiatives.
The assessment tools they are using can be grouped into two themes; gender DEI analytics and gender DEI research.

Gender DEI analytics
Additional DEI analytics which were used by some of the participating organizations are presented in Table 9.

Table 9: Examples of additional dei analytics used by organizations
1. Number of females in people management workforce
2. Number of voluntary trainings and on-demand trainings provided to females
3. Number of females in the head office
4. Time to hire females
5. Cost to hire females
6. Number of females eligible for promotion but not being promoted
7. Number of females hired each month
8. Percentage of female hiring out of the overall hiring
9.Comparison of the number of females inducted with the number of females who have left
position-wise
10.Scrutiny of positions replaced by a male hire after the exit of the previous female position
holder and vice versa
11.Detection of gender discrimination in grades awarded to male versus female employees in
their performance appraisals
12. Number of mentorships given to female employees
13. Pay gap (induction, promotion, and exit)Additional DEI analytics which were used by some of the participating organizations are presented in Table 9. GENDER DEI TOOLKIT

Gender DEI research
Organizations use various surveys and data collection techniques to conduct research and assess their DEI initiatives. Data
and analytics provide the ability to identify whether there are any gaps, prioritize areas for action and enable ongoing
measurement of progress. The tools used for gender DEI research include DEI items in employee engagement surveys, focus
group discussions on DEI, pulse surveys on DEI, coverage of DEI in exit interviews, DEI one of the themes in 360-degree
appraisals and benchmarking for DEI.

Focus group discussions

DEI one of the themes in 360-degree performance appraisals:
A 360-degree performance appraisal takes place
when employers evaluate employee performance
from multiple sources instead of only one-on-one
feedback from a direct manager. Once all the
feedback is collected, it is used to measure employees’
strengths, weaknesses and skills and can provide a
well-rounded performance review. While 360-degree
appraisals are more of a developmental tool than a
rating tool, many organizations integrate this
performance review system with other evaluation
tools to accelerate improvement company-wide.
Organizations such as EPCL identify specific themes
regarding gender gaps that are reflected in different
persons’ feedback in the 360-degree assessment in
performance appraisals.

Focus group discussions:
A focus group discussion on DEI involves
gathering people from similar or diverse
backgrounds and experiences together to
discuss a specific topic of interest related to
DEI in the workplace.  Questions are asked in
these group discussions about the perceptions,
attitudes, beliefs, opinions or ideas of the
participants. The PTCL Group has focus
group discussions in order to identify the root
cause of any inequality that may exist.

DEI items in employee engagement surveys:
DEI items in employee engagement surveys
Organizations such as Teradata, PTCL Group  
and Unilever include DEI items in their
Employee Engagement Survey (EES). The
data collected from these surveys is dissected
under the lens of DEI to identify patterns of
non-inclusivity highlighted by the employees. 

Pulse surveys on DEI:
Some organizations such as MMBL conduct
pulse surveys to understand if women in their
organization feel safe, respected and
comfortable in their workplace. These pulse
surveys are mainly conducted to gather
women's  feedback, in order to develop a
strategy that best caters to their needs and
priorities.

Coverage of DEI in exit interviews:
Exit interviews are carried out when an
employee is leaving the organization. Several
companies such as FINCA Microfinance
Bank Limited, Jazz, JS Bank conduct exit
interviews to improve their policies, and to
help and try retain the female employees who
plan to leave.Coverage of DEI in exit interviews
DEI one of the themes in 360-degree
performance appraisalsFocus group discussions

Benchmarking for DEI:
Benchmarking is the process of measuring key
business metrics and practices, and comparing
them within business areas or against a competitor,
industry peers, or other companies to understand
how and where the organization needs to change in
order to improve performance. Bank Alfalah
periodically sets DEI-related internal and external
benchmarks to track progress on DEI. In some
organizations, KPIs are set for the departmental
heads to achieve an optimum number of women in
their respective departments.

Categor 9: DEI COMMUNICATIONS 
Numerous communication mediums are being used by organizations to promote DEI internally as well as externally. The
aim is to maintain an interactive environment, and to provide employees an easy access to DEI related information, and
to communicate with external audiences about DEI related initiatives and issues.

Figure 10 : Tools for DEI Communications 
Internal communication channels
Internal web-spaces to promote DEI
DEI discussions in town hall meetings
DEI coverage in employee newsletters
Internal meeting sessions on DEI
Internal IVRs and SMSs for DEI Examples of internal communication channels being
used by organizations are:External communication channels
External DEI communication using social media
External DEI digital campaigns Examples of external communication channels being
used by organizations are:

Industry Examples of Tools for DEI Communications 

Internal communication channels
Examples of internal communication channels being
used by organizations are:
Internal web-spaces to promote DEI
DEI discussions in town hall meetings
DEI coverage in employee newsletters
Internal meeting sessions on DEI
Internal IVRs and SMSs for DEI

External communication channels
Examples of external communication channels being
used by organizations are:
External DEI communication using social media
External DEI digital campaigns

Internal web spaces used to promote DEI 
Table 10 provides examples of internal web spaces used to promote DEI.

Table 10: Examples of internal web spaces used by organizations to promote dei

Bank Alfalah: Bank Alfalah has an email group "Women at Bank Alfalah" on which the bank sends its female
employees women-centric articles. Internally, communications are rolled out through its learning
management system, staff TV channel and HR portal.
 
FINCA Microfinance Bank : LimitedFINCA Microfinance Bank Limited celebrates International Women’s month instead of celebrating it
for a single day. They have podcasts, interviews and panel discussions to raise awareness. The bank
also uploads the material regarding how it celebrated this month (including free health clinic,
awareness sessions, trainings on financial literacy etc.) on the platform of FINCA Impact Finance,
Yammer. Further, the bank has made a WhatsApp group to interact with its female employees.
Regular refreshers are sent to all staff members throughout Pakistan via emails (in English as well as
Urdu) regarding code of conduct, dress policy, and workplace harassment.
Jazz Jazz has several platforms including an internal portal and mobile app “People Hub” where all the
announcements, including DEI-related announcements are made. In addition to this information
about DEI, initiatives and policies are also released on emails, flash messages as well as on Workplace
by Meta. Jazz has also introduced an employee resource group for all women and is expanding it for
PWDs, allies and other forms of diversity within the organization. Micro-learnings and small videos
are shared on this channel for the purpose of raising awareness.

JS Bank: Employees of JS Bank have access to internet portals called Learning Management System and
Decibel, where all important announcements are available for people who are part of the organization.
Emails are another important source of communication, whereby the DEI team rolls out emails
providing guide and information about DEI. 

MMBL: In MMBL, female employees from top management as well as female employees working in any far-off
branch are part of a WhatsApp group. This group enables interaction and provides a platform to
women to communicate their problems so that they can be facilitated accordingly. They can share
their achievements, provide feedback, or ask for clarity on any matter of concern.

PTCL: The platform Workplace is used in PTCL Group to run numerous awareness campaigns such as
“Diversity at the PTCL Group”, to educate employees about D&I related terminology, and spread
knowledge about diversity and inclusion across the company. Moreover, the Pink club at PTCL Group
runs different campaigns for engagement purposes. The organization also ran a company-wide DEI
awareness campaign in 2021 through HR news bulletin. In this campaign, a news bulletin that
encapsulated DEI related efforts was released every Monday. It has also created a DEI work group on
Workplace app which has about eight thousand and one hundred employees. Posts are shared with
employees and news about sponsorships are also released so that all the employees and management
staff remain aware of the organization’s preferred roadmap for DEI at all times.

Unilever: Unilever has an Internal SharePoint portal that includes an entire module on DEI. The module shares
information regarding Unilever’s DEI initiatives. 


DEI discussions in town hall meetings
A town hall meeting is a company-wide event hosted by members of the upper management, with the intention to
keep the workforce updated about business results, changes, and the general direction of the company. Several
organizations use general town hall meetings to discuss DEI issues, or hold specific town hall meetings on DEI. In
Teradata, the topic of values and DEI is included at every town hall meeting which is conducted to include all
employees in broad DEI discussions. Similarly, S&P Global conducts town hall meetings to communicate the
company’s DEI values and efforts.

DEI coverage in employee newsletters
An employee newsletter of a company is an electronic or printed communications piece that is used by an
organization for its internal communication. Some organizations use it to inculcate the organization’s DEI
orientation in the minds of all of its employees. For example, FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited publishes success
stories (national and international) of female employees in its newsletter including the success stories of females who
started their career as branch managers and are currently at the position of regional manager. S&P Global is another
organization that uses newsletters to communicate the company’s DEI values and efforts.

Internal meeting sessions on DEI
A meeting session is a gathering of two or a limited number of people for the purpose of making decisions or
discussing company objectives and operations including DEI-related issues. Meetings are generally conducted in
person in an office; however, with the rise of video conferencing technologies, participants can join a business
meeting from anywhere. The British Council conducted a series of internal meeting sessions on “Safe Space” in which
male and female employees were invited in separate meetings that were moderated by the deputy director and area
director (both top-level directors who are managing the operations in Pakistan). Employees shared different
problems encountered at the workplace which helped the organization to devise interventions accordingly. Another
series of sessions is being conducted by HR, called “Stronger Together,” to help staff open up about their thoughts
and feelings about different topics in EDI.

Internal IVRs and SMSs for DEI
Interactive voice response (IVR) is an automated business phone system feature that interacts with callers and
gathers information by giving them choices via a menu. It then performs actions based on the answers of the caller
through the telephone keypad or their voice response. This system is also used by organizations to embrace DEI in
their routine operations. Along with IVRs, SMSs also facilitate in disseminating specific tailored messages to
different groups in PTCL Group, while adapting language (English for management and Urdu for non-management
staff) for better understanding amongst employees.

External DEI communication using social media
Businesses create their own social media marketing strategy to promote DEI
externally. For example, Bank Alfalah has a "Women who Inspire" and
“Women of Resilience” series that are used as a platform to empower women
by sharing real life inspiring women's journey with external audiences. The
Women who Inspire series is focused more on the top management, where
women share messages and advice for the lower level female employees to
grow in their career. The Women of Resilience series is focused more on the
women in the lower hierarchal level, to understand their struggles. Posts are
made which include the name, picture, designation, and message of the
employee and are shared on LinkedIn. Jazz also runs public awareness ad
campaigns on transgender rights, women rights and mental health issues on
social media. Regular press releases are issued on various platforms for
external communication, as well as for public disclosure of its DEI practices.

External DEI digital campaigns 
A digital campaign involves raising awareness about DEI across all the digital channels where people engage with an
organization. Some examples are presented in this sub-section.

EPCL 
EPCL recently embarked on a gender inclusive
journey targeted at breaking stereotypes that
surround working women by communication tools
and implementing the narrative of normalizing the
presence of women at various positions in the
petrochemicals industry. With a digitally driven
campaign titled “Celebrating Our Women,”
inspiring stories of female employees were launched.
The main aim was to break stereotypes that
surround working women, especially in the field of
engineering. Four episodes were launched, with the
following titles. 
Ghar sai itni dur, akeley kesey rahogi? (How will
you live alone this far away from home?)
Shaadi k baad, kesey manage kerogi? (How will you
manage all of this after marriage?)
Yeh larko ki field hoti hay, tum larki ho. (This field-
is for men, you’re a girl)
Working mother ho? Bacho ko kesey time dogi?
(You're a working mother? How will you make time
for your kids?)

TPL
TPL Corp ran numerous engaging digital
campaigns during the summer of 2021 for eight
weeks. The focus of the campaign was to
enlighten potential employees about how the
company promotes women, directs constant
efforts towards creating an inclusive culture, and
the benefits of working with TPL Corp.

Telenor
Telenor ran campaigns such as: 
#SeeTheRealMe, debunking biases around females and communicating their true potential.
“Myth Busting”, where male mangers advocated female employees as being equally hard working
and competent by sharing the benefits of working with female colleagues, and how female's
contributions allowed the organization to gain competitive advantage. The whole practice helped
getting male leaders/managers on board, and demolishing the mental traps that become a barrier
in hiring female employees.
#SpeakUp, reminding employees about different types of harassment and reporting.
#BreaktheBias, released on International Women’s Day where Telenor Pakistan's women
narrated their stories on how they broke the biases in their workplace 


CATEGORY 10: DEI LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
DEI LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 
Organizations conduct numerous trainings in an attempt to create a diverse, equitable and inclusive culture, so that all
employees hold similar beliefs regarding gender DEI. Such trainings become a source of enlightenment for employees
about the concept of gender DEI, and help them to take practical steps to embrace and enhance DEI in the workplace.
These trainings are provided to all employees, including leaders, to foster an inclusive environment. Industry examples
related to such trainings can be clubbed into two groups; Popular DEI trainings and additional DEI training and
learning initiatives. 

Popular DEI trainings
Popular DEI trainings that are offered by many organizations include:
Sexual harassment training
Gender sensitization training
Unconscious bias training

Examples of popular DEI trainings
Abacus recently dedicated an entire month to
carry out trainings on unconscious bias, gender
sensitivity, sexual harassment and code of
conduct, which were mandatory for all
employees. Bank Alfalah launched an e-learning
platform in 2021 to train and educate their
employees on overcoming gender stereotypes
and unconscious bias. The organization also
carries out sessions for women on handling
sexual harassment, in an attempt to give them
the courage to speak up.
 
In order to raise awareness about gender and
workplace harassment for females at all
organizational levels, FINCA Microfinance
Bank Limited carries out online focus group
sessions via Microsoft teams every month.
Females are educated on organizational values,
reporting channels and accessibility. JS Bank conducts trainings on harassment
and gender sensitization. Their gender
sensitization training is run specifically for
customer facing staff, and ensures that at
least one person at one customer touchpoint
serves as a 'Gender Champion'. It trains them
on appropriate conduct, awareness on
harassment, gender biases and the necessary
considerations and etiquettes to follow while
interacting with women.

At Unilever, each and every function has
focused training agendas on female capability.
In 2022, the organization is carrying out gender
sensitization trainings as a refresher. 

The gender sensitization trainings held at
Hashoo Group not only help raise awareness
on the matter, but the idea is to unpack the
concept in a manner that it pushes people to
think critically, internalize it, own it, and
connect with it. The group provides small-
nugget size organic training of 1-2 hours, four
times a week or once a month, to a group of 10
to 12 individuals, on an on-going basis. HRSG has trained employees on social
compliance policy i.e., prohibition of
harassment and abuse, and there are further
plans to introduce sensitivity trainings on
DEI.

A gender audit was conducted by PPAF
along with the training “Dignity At
Workplace”. A renowned trainer was invited
who generated the concept of D&I  that
eventually led to the creation of modules on
gender sensitization. Apart from that, PPAF
has been carrying out “16 Days of Activism”
every year since 2014. The program enlightens
employees on gender based violence by
conducting campaigns.  

PTCL Group plans to develop portfolios and
provide trainings around capacity building,
gender sensitive vocabulary and gender
stereotypes in the coming year.

British Council, Jazz and Telenor are also
among the organizations which provide
trainings on unconscious bias.

TPL Corp provides training on harassment
and makes sure that all employees go
through this training as the organization has
zero tolerance policy towards harassment.

Additional DEI training and learning initiatives
Abacus
At Abacus, the corporate HR department runs bi-annual training programs with regards to aligning
employees career development plans through classroom level soft skill trainings on D&I policies, programs and
practices.
Bank Alfalah
Bank Alfalah plans to start a series on e-learning for first-time mothers and their line managers. The
transition of entering motherhood and having to come back to work is challenging and the organization
acknowledges it. Educating line managers on how to be more supportive towards these mothers is likely to
make the transition easier.

FINCA Microfinance Bank
FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited conducts a mandatory 45-minute training every March on D&I covering
several modules. A quiz is held afterwards, and an employee needs to score 50% or above to move forward. 
 Moreover, a one-day training is conducted on stress management and team building. The company also
deputes women champions which could be males or females at all of their touch-points. Their role is to
provide a safe space for women, both staff and customers, to educate females about financial inclusion, and  to
extend their learnings to others.

Interloop
Interloop conducts numerous trainings on promoting equality and diversity for the management staff, and
the company also plans to extend these trainings for the non-management staff.

Jazz
Jazz conducted a MCC campaign to get male managers/leaders on board so that they can show their support, and
share facts on how females provide a competitive advantage and other benefits to their teams. The company has
also conducted concentrated trainings with EY, which included trainings on inclusive leadership and becoming
male champions of change. Jazz also provides other DEI related trainings which include micro aggressions and
implicit bias trainings for all employees; inclusive management training for all people managers and leaders, and
inclusive culture and everyday respect training for its leadership team. The organization also offers micro learning
using e-learning platforms. 

Teradata
Teradata conducts acknowledgment sessions called “Diversity Dialogues” to ensure an in-depth
understanding about DEI and its challenges. External speakers are invited to share facts, stories, statistics,
challenges and practices related to DEI, while also allowing internal volunteers to share their stories about
discrimination and inequity. The activity creates sensitization of the matter, by allowing individuals who have
gone through such experiences to talk about them, while allowing anonymity.
 
TPL Corp has conducted various training sessions. The sessions were for all management staff and aimed at
teaching them the ways to enhance diversity, and be more inclusive in managing their teams. These se also
focused on collaboration, transparency and removing unconscious bias.TPL CorpGENDER DEI TOOLKIT

S&P Global
S&P Global has a regular educational webinar series, called "Courageous Conversations", in which leading
experts, recognized advocates and authors in the DEI space speak on a variety of DEI topics, including anti-
racism, transgender equality, and colorism at both micro and macro-levels. Through these conversations, S&P
Global aims for its people to go through the journey of learning together as an organization. A follow-up open
forum debrief session, called "Brave Spaces" also provides the opportunity for people to share, ask questions,
and have constructive discussions, conducted in a safe space for everyone.

Telenor
The leadership D&I program at Telenor provides training on D&I to both senior and middle managers. The
organization also conducted a female leadership program, which was a workshop to uplift senior female
leaders. The aim was to better equip them to manage diversity within their teams while also managing their
own and the biases of of their subordinates. The company also carries out the MCC campaign, focused on
building male sponsorship for gender DEI.

CATEGORY 11: CONNECTING DEI AND SUSTAINABILITY 
Organizations extend their DEI believes and practices outside the workplace to play their part in creating a society that values
its women as much as men. Gender DEI practices are extended and broadened to cater to sustainability and its multiple
dimensions. Examples of such practices can be divided into two main categories; connecting DEI and sustainability externally
and connecting DEI and sustainability internally.  
Connecting DEI and sustainability externally

Trainings for female customers and clients
MMBL
MMBL's strategy for women's empowerment includes
a program a called Women Inspirational Network.
This program facilitates female customers and
borrowers (rural and urban females) who want to
become entrepreneurs, by training and digitally
equipping them so that they can achieve their desired
goals.

At FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited, the operations
department along with the marketing and HR
department, run a National Literacy Program (NLP)
targeting financial literacy. The focus is to have as
many females in the program as possible and ensure
financial inclusion of women. This initiative is not just
limited to employees at FINCA, but is extended to its
female clients as well. FINCA Microfinance Bank Limited Gender DEI practices that fall under the theme of connecting DEI and sustainability externally are divided into trainings for
female customers and clients, external scholarship programs for women, external DEI research and collaboration with DEI
related NGOs.Trainings for female customers and clients

External scholarship programs for women
British Council:
British Council offers Scottish scholarships to
female students from a lower socio-economic
background. Hundred plus scholarships are
offered for Bachelors and Masters. The
company also offers STEM scholarships in
which female students are sent to the UK for
skill development.

External DEI research 
S&P Global Pakistan:
S&P Global Pakistan is working in close
partnership with UN Pakistan Women's Council
on the Future of Women and Work. A recent
initiative explored the impact of the pandemic on
women in Pakistan. A survey was designed by
Texas A&M University, which was kept open for
six months. Moreover, The U.S. Pakistan Women's
Council, S&P Global, Texas A&M University, and
the U.S. Pakistan Business Council will convene
companies and private sector-led non-profit
organizations to exchange lessons learned, for
policy development and recommendations for the
advancement of women.

Collaboration with DEI
related NGOs
Feroze1888
Feroze1888 considers it their responsibility
to create job opportunities and raise
awareness to encourage women to utilize
their talent. One of their 14 sustainability
goals is solely concerned with working
towards the betterment of the society. The
company actively interacts with
foundations such as Meman foundation
and Selaani. Such collaborations allow
room for creating employment
opportunities.

Connecting DEI and sustainability internally
Organizations that have DEI best practices also take initiatives which connect DEI with sustainability internally with an
aim of embedding it deep into the organizational culture. The domestic violence support offered by Unilever is an example
of such practices. 

Domestic violence support for women 
Unilever implements initiatives to provide domestic violence support for its female employees.
A policy was devised in 2021 addressing "How to manage domestic violence beyond the
workplace". It provided complete facilitation to the employee from a perspective of pulling
them out of the dreadful situation. This includes giving them housing for a certain period of
time, providing them with mental well-being support, arranging lawyers, and providing any
other support or assistance they may need. Unilever also launched a campaign which was
reflected in their advertisements. A small ad which revolved around becoming "unmute" was
made, empowering victims to speak up.  A phone line was also attached with the Ministry of
Human Rights, encouraging women to report domestic violence cases.Unilever


Category 12: Community, Government Relations and Philanthropy Listen to and serve societyThe external group
Organizations committed to DEI realize that their responsibilities are not limited to the workplace. Therefore, they
partner and collaborate with external parties, or take initiatives for women in the external community to provide these
women with opportunities they would otherwise remain deprived of. Examples of initiatives under this category can be
divided under  two themes; support for women-led businesses and community-based capacity development programs
for women.

Support for women-led businesses 
Table 12 presents examples of steps taken by various organizations to extend their help for small women-owned businesses,
and encourage and empower women to become successful entrepreneurs.

Table 12: Examples of organizations providing support for women-led businesses 
Bank Alfalah:  Bank Alfalah has a toolkit for the SME sector which can be used by women to further
enhance their businesses. Visits are made by Bank Alfalah to organizations created and led by
women to address ways their businesses can be expanded. Bank Alfalah  was also actively
involved in the Kamyaab Jawaan scheme introduced by the ex Prime minister, to help several
women.
  
Jazz: Jazz has programs in place to enhance digital literacy among girls, maximize female-led
enterprises in the start-up ecosystem and enhance the representation of women across ICT.
PPAFPPAF conducted an event called Women’s Jamboree in which women who had won Amtul
Raqeeb award (acknowledgement for women who had been change makers) over the years
were gathered with the purpose of networking. They shared the initiatives they had taken,
and how they had supported their businesses using the money they had won. 

PTCL Group: PTCL Group believes in empowering women, and has provided business to small scale
women-owned firms on several occasions in order to give them the opportunity to create
industry links.

TPL Corp: TPL Corp makes continuous efforts to support women in all spheres of life. The company
partnered with a women led organization of under privileged females in 2021 which makes
artifacts. The organization was given TPL Corp's posters of nearly 50 by 50 feet to recycle
and convert them into beautiful artifacts, which were presented to employees on
international women’s day.

Community-based capacity development programs for women
Organizations that have embraced DEI partner with different institutes to provide community-based capacity development
programs for women to prepare them for starting their professional careers. These programs provide opportunities to many
women and equip them with the skills required to join the workforce. Examples under this theme include trainings for
budding female entrepreneurs,  community-based leadership development programs for women, community-based
mentorship programs for women, partnerships with other organizations and external awareness campaigns. Table 13
presents examples of industry practices which come under this theme. 

Table 13: Examples of community-based capacity development programs for women 

Hashoo Group: Hashoo Group established a non-profit organization called Hashoo Foundation to enable
the underprivileged to become self-reliant through various humanitarian and capacity
building approaches. The Foundation further established, a social enterprise called Hashoo
Hunar (HH) over the last few decades of its service to the development sector. HH works to
alleviate poverty through human resource development initatives, such as youth
development centers, sustainable livelihoods, education and health and nutrition programs,
with a gender equitable focus.

Bank Alfalah: Bank Alfalah’s SME team has a dedicated department that initiates awareness campaigns on
financial inclusion of women. Partnerships with organizations such as Sameera and Ladies
fund are formed to educate women on financial, as well as non-financial literacy.

EPCL: EPCL partnered with a training institute that aids the company in imparting technical skills
in the communities it works with; this includes the Gul Shane Hadid community, and
people living around port Qasim. The company is also engaged in talks with WE power,
Women Engineers (Pakistani non-profit organization) and Million mentors (international
organization working to increase women representation in STEM) to enhance their efforts
for the community. 


Interloop: Interloop’s HULT Prize Entrepreneurial program promotes entrepreneurial mindset
amongst women in the society. This event took place in collaboration with the Government
College Women University Faisalabad (GCWUF) entrepreneurial society and University of
Agriculture Faisalabad (UAF). Interloop also sponsored a fashion design course for females
in which an MOU was signed with the Pakistan Network Training Institute Lahore to
support deserving female students for a 2-years BA fashion designing course. Interloop also
sponsored the IBA-CED program. The aim was to promote entrepreneurship in women and
around 300 participants (males/females/families) benefited from the program.

MMBL: Partnerships with CIP, DARAZ, NIC & GDG are formed by MMBL for capacity building
activities for women borrowers and entrepreneurs.

Jazz: Jazz conducted a bootcamp with the National Incubation Center (NIC) team, in which
female entrepreneurs presented their business pitch and were also provided entrepreneurial
trainings to support their ideas. The company is also assisting the safe transition of women
to the digital world, and as part of GSMA Connected Women Commitment Initiative, it has
committed to increase the proportion of women in its mobile internet customer base by 8
percent by 2023 with a dedicated focus on female smart phone ownership. Also, Jazz and
Chughtai Lab collaborate to offer discounts on female specific medical tests. Jazz has also
introduced Pink Card though which women can avail 50% discounts on various female
related medical tests. The cards are issued free of cost, and women can add five more family
members on the card, regardless of their dependency or insurance coverage.
MMBLPartnerships with CIP, DARAZ, NIC & GDG are formed by MMBL for capacity building
activities for women borrowers and entrepreneurs.

PPAF: PPAF carried out a leadership training program called "Irada". It was a two days’ event. On
the first day, community women met donors and narrated their experiences to them. The
second day was focused on their capacity building, which highlighted and worked on
strengthening areas such as confidence building, leadership, team management and
teamwork. 

PTCL Group: Inclusion is one of the five focus areas of the CSR Policy at PTCL Group. The organization
designs and executes interventions that help different population groups especially w.r.t.
gender and disability. The organization believes in creating sustainable partnerships with
the development sector so that implementation of the CSR projects can be done by
organizations that have good penetration in impoverished community groups.

S&P Global: S&P Global, in collaboration with U.S.-Pakistan Women's Council (USPWC), has pledged
to mentor 20,000 girls and women in Pakistan over a period of 3 years through the "Million
Women Mentor" program. Million Women Mentors is a movement to spark the interest and
confidence of girls and women to pursue and succeed in STEM careers, and pursue
leadership opportunities through the power of mentoring. Through this pledge, S&P Global
wants to play a role in bridging the global skills gap, and create an inclusive economy.


CATEGORY 13: SERVICES AND PRODUCTS, MARKETING AND RESPONSIBLE SOURCING

Industry Examples of Tools for Services and Products, Marketing and Responsible Sourcing
There were limited industry examples under the categories of services and products, marketing and responsible sourcing.
Overall, these areas need considerable attention. The GDEIB 2021 standards provide guidance about the impact of these
categories. The standards explain that it is vital for organizations to embed DEI considerations in service and product
development. Customers tend to be the most crucial stakeholders for an organization, thus addressing their perceptions and
needs sets the tone for how they will engage with the company going forward. It is also integral to ensure that biasness towards
females is not reflected in any form in the products or services offered by an organization.
Marketing and customer service strategies attract and retain the customer base. The impact that marketing strategies can have
on creating an image of the organization in the consumers’ mind is significant. Truly diverse and inclusive marketing strategies
require that a message resonate consciously and subconsciously with the audience, connecting with them on a deeper level. If
the customers cannot identify with the message the organization is advertising in its marketing campaigns, retaining them is
going to be a challenge. Customer service reflects brand image, mission and core values. All these elements are interconnected.
Thus authentic efforts of embedding DEI in customer service are critical.
Responsible and ethical sourcing refers to a commitment to purchase a significant percentage of goods and services from
organizations committed to high standards in DEI, sustainability, ethical behavior, and Fair Trade. Further, the organization
supports its current and potential suppliers in maintaining high standards through education and systems that enable them to
compete equitably with other suppliers, the ultimate goal being the creation of sustainable, successful, and prosperous societies.

Gender awareness in services and product development:
Organizations are taking steps to elevate the economic condition of women in an attempt to reduce inequities, especially
those encountered by women. For this purpose, they make conscious efforts to offer products and services which equitably
cater to the needs and wants of both genders. Some industry examples are presented below. 

PPAF
PPAF has had several poverty graduation initiatives that
aim to reduce poverty from the lowest levels and bring
economic and social prosperity.  These initiatives have been
implemented in over 100 districts and have influenced 16.28
million people with 50% women. The organization also
ensures that there is no discrimination when it comes to the
company’s interventions. For example, borrowers of
microfinance loans are 50 percent females. Another
initiative taken by PPAF is their “Art Residency” project,
which was a musical journey out of poverty for indigenous
musicians, with a focus on the marginalization of musicians
within society, preserving endangered indigenous musical
instruments and folk economy. Diversity was a core
component of the Art Residency in Islamabad as a female
vocalist and apprentice duo was added as part of the
residency to achieve more gender balance. 

JS Bank
JS bank has a specific product umbrella, "JS Her"
which represents all the products specifically
designed for women. Additionally, the bank has
separate loan products for women who want to
start their own business, namely JS Khud
Mukhtar.

Gender sensitivity in marketing and customer service
Bank Alfalah
Bank Alfalah is developing gender champions at customer touchpoints bank wide. These champions can either be male or
female, and receive a sensitization training, along with the detail about every facility that is available for women in the
bank. 
 
Gender equity in sourcing
Organizations make a conscious effort to have ethical companies on board while conducting business. For instance,
Teradata’s code of corporate governance mandates them to ensure that the company they are doing business with, is not 
unethical or involved in practices that by any means maybe regarded as unethical, immoral or against the cultural norms
of that country and its corporate sector. 

SECTION  3
Other diversities  The way forward

Other Diversities 
The purpose of this toolkit was to provide examples of gender DEI best practices and to encourage organizations in Pakistan
to increase the adoption of such practices. However, many forms of diversity co-exist, and organizations are tapping into
these dimensions in order to fully embrace DEI in its true essence. Examples of other diversities for which organizations in
Pakistan are taking initiatives includes religiously and culturally diverse individuals, persons with disabilities and
transgenders.

Industry Examples of initiatives for other diversitie
Religious and cultural diversity
Organizations that have embraced DEI are making efforts to inculcate religious and cultural diversity in their workforce,
by prioritizing individuals from different backgrounds. A few industry examples are discussed in this subsection. 

PTCL Group
At PTCL Group, Talent Acquisition teams are encouraged to share
analytics on the kind of candidates they are attracting for each category
(gender, religious, cultural) and whether there is a need to explore other
forums for job advertisements. Talent Management teams are asked to share
growth patterns for each category to gauge a pattern of exclusion (if any)
exists. Performance Management teams are also asked to share data on the
same lines and are encouraged to address grievances of population groups
who may feel they are being excluded due to their demographical
background. PTCL Group has offices located in all five provinces and
cherishes the cultural and religious diversity that their employees bring to
the organization. All employees are entitled to take leaves based on their
religious and cultural commitments. Line managers are encouraged to
adjust their schedules around festive times of the year. Close-knit teams get
together to celebrate religious occasions with their colleagues at the regional
level.

MMBL 
At MMBL, religious minorities have
been facilitated through the
introduction of minority leaves. All
the religious minorities (Hindus,
Christians etc.) are allowed to take a
day off on their respective religious
occasions and on the next day as well.
Minorities get holidays on Muslim
festivals, as well as  their own religious
festivals. Their religious festivities are
celebrated in the organization as well.
MMBL also wishes and sends gifts to
its non-Muslim employees on their
religious occasions. 

SECTION 3: CONCLUSION Teradata and British Council
Persons with disabilities (PWDs)

Organizations that have embraced DEI are very actively involved in creating a space for those with  disabilities. Some
examples of these initiatives are presented in this sub-section. 
HRSG partnered with NOWPDP to support PWD’s. The organization was part of the "100 Days’ 100
Lives" campaign, where individuals from NOWPDP were mentored by HRSG employees, post which the
said individuals are placed within HRSG or with its partners. Last year the company hired and mentored
two individuals internally. 

PTCL Group's  most prized intervention for PWDs is their "Justuju" internship program. It is a
structured 6-week paid internship program. PTCL Group partners with organizations such as Deaf Talk
and NOWPDP to carry out this program. Every intern has a mentor assigned to them from PTCL or
Ufone. The program aims at helping persons with disabilities kick start their corporate careers. Before
the program was implemented, PTCL headquarter’s building was assessed in to order to ensure
accessibility for all. Currently, the headquarters of PTCL, Ufone tower, Karachi zonal headquarter, and
Lahore zonal headquarter are all accessible for PWDs. The industry hiring rate of interns under the
Justuju Internship program is 30%. 

Teradata has held online cultural
sensitivity workshops for all its
employees. British Council also carried
out trainings on anti-racism for all its
employees in Pakistan after the George
Floyd occurred incident. 

Jazz celebrates its diverse workforce in the form of various events,
such as Holi for Hindu colleagues with leave for them on their
special day, Christmas leave and celebration for Christian staff,
and festivities for Muslim holidays. To support low-income Muslim
colleagues, Jazz also arranges ration packs and iftar packs during
Ramadan.
 
PPAF had a two-week internship program in which people from
various national and international universities were selected. The
organization was able attract individuals from all across the
country, including Balochistan, Sindh, Interior Sindh and other
far-flung areas. Students from all backgrounds were encouraged to
apply, and their finances were also covered. 
 
Abacus is an organization which not
only has an inclusive environment for
religious minorities, but also promotes
them to leadership positions. Their
business process outsourcing practice
area is led by a Christian, while another
area is led by a Hindu.

MMBL has incorporated differently-abled persons in its workforce through its program “Hum Qadam”
and provides them with suitable infrastructure in the head office. This practice is being expanded in other
branches as well.

Transgenders
Transgenders of Pakistan are often left ignored in Pakistan. Not many organizations are taking into account this group
of people, organizations implementing best practices of DEI are planning to include them in their workforce in the near
future. MMBL is one such organization that is aiming to take specific steps to include transgenders in their workforce.
Unilever is already quite progressive in this regard. Trainings are provided under the trans-programme in order to
sensitize employees before the induction of trans individuals in Unilever’s ecosystem. Jazz has an inclusive culture with
transgenders already in its workforce. Recently, Jazz has run a massive campaign, "Super for Change", for transgender
rights. The campaign included television commercials, social media campaigns, storytelling events and internal story
sharing competition with their transgender community, and special packages for supporting the transgender
community.JS Bank established a partnership with Careem that offers convenient, affordable and safe transport to
PWDs with certain discounts in a month on the rides. 
British Council provides disability sensitization trainings, to make the organization more inclusive for
disabled people. Jazz has enabled infrastructure provision in the organization such as ramps, lifts and specialized
lavatories to support PWDs in its workforce. Persons with disabilities are provided transport facility for
work travel. Awareness training for line managers and colleagues was arranged to make sure that PWDs
are supported in the workplace, and feel a sense of belonging. Jazz is also launching a focused internship
program for PWDs, "Spectrum", which is aimed at providing internship for persons with visible and
invisible disabilities. 
Telenor has a flagship program called the "Open Mind Trainee" (OMT) through which the company is
empowering differently abled persons. This is also a yearly program in which people with different needs
are hired, trained and given the exposure which is needed from a multi-national perspective. The whole
office facility of Telenor is designed in a way that facilitates PWDs.

The way forward
This toolkit focuses primarily on gender diversity and identifies tools that organizations may adopt to support
their gender DEI strategies. These tools can be used by both the participating organizations to further enhance
their DEI efforts into untapped areas, and also by other organizations to better understand the kind of
initiatives that can be taken. The toolkit also briefly sheds light on organizational practices catering to other
forms of diversities in Pakistan i.e. cultural and religious diversity, PWDs and transgenders. 
While some organizations are actively working to include other forms of diversities in their workforce, this
notion still requires wider application and acceptance. This can be done in multiple ways. For instance, the
existing practices should be communicated via an accessible medium, such as a toolkit dedicated to other
diversities, to motivate organizations to implement them. Moreover, detailed research should be conducted on
the benefits associated with creating more inclusive workplaces, including but not limited to increased
employee engagement, innovative behavior at work and better connection with customers. Indigenous material
covering other related areas, such as the frequent challenges encountered by organizations in implementing DEI
practices, and practical steps to overcome them, also needs to be developed. 

Additionally, there should be more training and peer-to-peer learning sessions to share best practices and
challenges in implementing these practices. Such sessions can be arranged within organizations, at various
organizational levels, to create awareness amongst all employees. Targeted training can ensure that employees,
irrespective of their position/level hold a shared meaning of DEI, understand the organization's commitment
towards it, and ultimately play their part in fulfilling the DEI goals. Professionals interested in DEI topics
should be brought together at various forums to share learnings and have topical discussions about the state of
DEI in their respective workplaces. Such events could lead to valuable discussions and learnings on how to
advance DEI and foster a sense of belonging in organizations. Furthermore, indigenous case studies and success
stories relating to various forms of diversities should be written and then discussed in universities, to form a
linkage between industry and academia in this area. All these efforts can collectively create a ripple effect in
improving DEI in the workplaces across Pakistan. This will give rise to a fair society where everyone feels
appreciated and uplifted based on competence, rather than being treated inequitably because of personal
characteristics.


An Overview of the Methodology Adopted to Develop the Toolkit
Methodology
The Gender DEI Toolkit is based on data collected from 19 organizations operating in Pakistan. Various
organizations which had won awards for DEI over the last few years were approached from September 2021
till March 2022. The concept of the toolkit was explained and they were requested to share their gender DEI
best practices with the MARC team. Interviews were taken with at least one person in each organization who
was directly involved in the design and implementation of DEI practices in the organization. The purpose of
the interview was to collect information on various best practices in the organization; the research was not
designed to collect comprehensive data on all possible DEI practices from multiple sources. As a follow-up to
the interview, the organizations were also asked to share additional relevant information, documents,
photographs, etc. that they had mentioned during the interview, and which were not confidential. Some
examples of commonly shared post-interview material include the DEI vision or mission statements, details of
DEI-related events, names of DEI programs and trainings, and lists of DEI-related benefits. 
All interviews were transcribed and added to NVivo, a software for qualitative analysis. Additional relevant
information from each organization was also added to the NVivo database. Thematic analysis was used to
extract information from the data using a mix of deductive and inductive approaches. Thus, while some initial
nodes were identified from the existing literature and the GDEIB 2021 standards, additional nodes emerged
from the data. All the relevant information from the 19 organizations was coded under the various
nodes/categories and was read by at least two researchers to ensure that the examples reflected the
node/category. The names of the nodes were later refined to reflect the categories and sub-categories of the
“Gender DEI Tools”. Follow-up emails were sent to the participating organizations in which the focal person
was asked to review the information extracted from their organization to be included in the toolkit, to avoid
any misinterpretation of information. 
The first draft of the toolkit was more than 150 pages in length. Based on internal discussions, this was
reduced to around 100 pages and shared with a few industry experts and some academicians for feedback.
After incorporating feedback from these experts, the toolkit was condensed to its current length to make it
concise and user-friendly. Variations in the names of the tools were discussed to ensure that they reflected the
vocabulary used in the DEI literature and the industry in Pakistan. 
The purpose of the toolkit is to provide a list of tools and examples of practices under each tool to enhance
gender equity in organizations in Pakistan. Since its inception, the toolkit was not aimed at presenting
detailed examples of all DEI practices implemented within participating organizations.The purpose of the
toolkit strongly influenced the methodology and was kept in perspective during the whole process of
developing the toolkit.

This toolkit has been designed and developed using one of most popular online graphic design tools called Canva. The
application was created by a female entrepreneur named Melanie Perkins. She has the honor of being among the two
percent of female CEOs of organizations which are sponsored by venture capital. Canva has more than 60 million users and
has facilitated in creating approximately 3.5 billion designs in over 190 countries, making designing simplified and
accessible for all. The company is also committed to fulfill its social responsibility as it donates a 30% stake in the business
to a charity that works to end poverty.Canva: graphic design platform used for the toolkitFor further information about GDEIB 2021 standards
 Download the GDEIB 2021 Standards:  https://centreforglobalinclusion.org/file_download/inline/a1564bf0-9b5d-469a-
a516-c6d438c79609
For further information on dei 
Explore:
The diversity homepage of HR Metrics for DEI related activities and news in Pakistan:
https://thehrmetrics.com/diversity/
The homepage of The Centre for Global Inclusion for global knowledge and resources on DEI:
https://centreforglobalinclusion.org
The homepage of EDGE for gender certification for organizations: 
https://edge-cert.org
The Global Gender Intelligence Assessment (GGIA) site for an individual gender assessment:
https://globaldiversityservices.com/products/the-global-gender-intelligence-assessment
The ISO standards on diversity and inclusion: 
https://www.iso.org/standard/71164.html
Special thanks
The MARC team would like to thank Dr. Amna Basharat, Sabahat Bokhari, Amra Mubashar and Sara Khan for their
useful comments which helped in refining the toolkit.

© 2022 Management Advancement Research Centre (MARC) 
FAST School of Management
National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, PakistanThis Gender DEI Toolkit is developed on the basis of information on gender DEI best practices
collected from 19 organizations operating in Pakistan. It presents 47 tools further divided into 80 plus
sub-categories. These have been identified by the MARC team on the basis of the details of practices
provided by the participating organizations. The tools are organized under the 13 categories of the
Global Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Benchmarks (GDEIB) 2021 standards that are published by the
Centre for Global Inclusion, USA, with the support and input of 112 expert panelists from around the
world. Thus, the toolkit provides practical ideas that are aligned with global standards, to aid
organizations in fortifying and enhancing gender diversity in the workplace. Through this toolkit, the
MARC team aims to contribute towards the Fifth Sustainable Development Goal (SDG 5), namely
‘gender equality’, by imagineering a future where men and women are working side by side as equals,
in all spheres of life in Pakistan.   
The MARC team is extremely grateful to the organizations who generously shared examples of their
best practices. These organizations (in alphabetical order) are as follows: Abacus, Bank Alfalah,
British Council, Engro Polymers and Chemicals Limited, Feroze1888, FINCA Microfinance Bank
Limited, Hashoo Group, HRSG, Interloop, Jazz, JS Bank, Mobilink Microfinance Bank Limited,
PPAF, PTCL, S&P Global, Telenor, Teradata, TPL Corporation and Unilever.About the Gender DEI Toolkit
About MARC
The Management Advancement Research Centre (MARC) was established at FAST-NUCES
Islamabad to conduct leading edge research in management sciences with the aim to enhance
knowledge and find solutions for industry challenges. Various Special Interest Groups (SIGs) work
under MARC, all committed to taking up projects which contribute to the body of knowledge, yet at
the same time provide a bridge between academia and practice.
About the Director MARC
Dr. Sadia Nadeem is a professor at FAST School of Management, FAST-NUCES Islamabad, and the
director of MARC. She has approximately 24 years of experience of research, teaching and consulting
in the field of HR. Discrimination and disadvantage in the labor market is one of her areas of
interest. 
Please cite the toolkit as: Nadeem, S., Siddiqa, A., Jamil, J., Khan, N., Fawad, R., & Bano. A. (2022). Gender
DEI Toolkit: Best practices to enhance gender equality in Pakistan. Islamabad: Management Advancement
Research Centre, FAST-NUCES.

GENDER DEI TOOLKIT: 
BEST PRACTICES TO ENHANCE
GENDER EQUALITY IN PAKISTAN 

By Dr. Sadia Nadeem and the DEI Toolkit Team
FAST School of Management, NUCES, Pakistan

GENDER DEI TOOLKIT: 
BEST PRACTICES TO ENHANCE
GENDER EQUALITY IN PAKISTAN 

© 2022 Management Advancement Research Centre 
FAST School of Management 
National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences 
A.K. Brohi Road, H-11/4 
Islamabad
Pakistan 
by
Sadia Nadeem 
Ayesha Siddiqa
Javeria Jamil
Neeha Khan
Razeen Fawad
Ayesha Bano

Please  cite  the  toolkit  as:  Nadeem,  S.,  Siddiqa,  A.,  Jamil,  J.,  Khan,  N.,  Fawad,  R.,  &  Bano.  A.  (2022).
Gender  DEI  Toolkit:  Best  practices  to  enhance  gender  equality  in  Pakistan.  Islamabad:  Management
Advancement Research Centre, FAST-NUCES.
